Global Peace Initiative, a youth-based non-governmental organization that advocate for peace globally has called on the federal, state and local governments to make youth involvement a priority in nation building and grass root development. Director General of the Initiative, Badamasi Sadiq Ibrahim stated this during a presentation of life patronship award to the Commissioner of Police in charge Mobile Police Force, CP. Lawan Jimeta and the Assistant Commissioner of Police in charge of Project, Supplies and Monitoring, ACP. Shamsuddin Muhammad in Abuja. READ ALSO:   Rep. Committee pledges to make difference in youth empowerment “Youth idleness has always been the bane of many crimes committed in Nigeria. As such, the only way to curb the menace of rising crime cases in the society is to get the youths involved in different initiatives on nation building that will make them productive both to the society and the country at large. “The Global Peace Initiative provides a platform for advocacy in the area of youth development and achieving peace and security in the country. “The organization identified with officers of the police force because of the distinct efforts they have put over the years in curbing crime and promoting peace in the Nigerian society.” In his response, the Commissioner of Police in charge of Force Headquarters Mobile Police Force, Lawan Jimeta said his interest since joining the police has always been in the area of youth development. Jimeta said the Nigerian Police Force to collaborate with Civil Society Organizations and Non-governmental organizations in promoting peace and security in the country. “Institutions like the Global Peace Initiative is our good partner especially in the area of capacity building and sensitization geared towards promoting peace and development in the society, therefore it noteworthy your contributions in the aspect. ‘The current Inspector General of Police has expressed his support for community policing as a way of reducing insecurity and crises in the grass root and I urge you to be proactive in suppoting this move,” he added.