…Activates first official transaction in Dubai Verve, a leading payments technology and card business in Africa, held a first transaction event recently in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Verve Global cardholders can now use their cards on Discover Global Network to transact in more than 185 countries and territories, including Dubai, United Arab Emirates. The first transaction event took place at Emperor Retail outlet, City Walk by Meraas Al Safa Str. Dubai. Man allegedly beats up motorcyclist over woman Senior Executive members of Verve International were joined at the event by key partners, including Jerry Fosker, a Senior Executive from Discover Global Network, Shamsudeen Fashola; Group Head Retail Banking FCMB, Margaret Okhoya; Product Manager Card Services FCMB, Lanre Oladimeji; Group Head Retail Banking- Zenith Bank, Nneka Onwuegbuche; Product Manager, Card Services Zenith Bank, among others. Speaking at the launch in Dubai, Mitchell Elegbe, Interswitch Group Managing Director, expressed his excitement, stating that the decision to bring Verve Global to Dubai was a strategic one: “Dubai is an important destination of choice for business and leisure, as well as being a popular destination for Nigerians.” The transaction in Dubai comes following the successful launch of Verve Global in New York in August this year, and marks Verve International’s first entrance into the UAE region. Elegbe continued: “As we approach the Dubai Expo 2020, we believe this is the right time to expand into a region with a rapidly evolving payments market. The launch in Dubai will provide an efficient way for new and existing Verve Global cardholders to transact whenever they visit the region.” Expressing his gratitude to stakeholders and partners present, Mike Ogbalu III, Chief Executive Officer, Verve International, reiterated the mission and vision of Verve, stating its core objective of making seamless payment solutions available to Nigerians and Africans in every part of the world. “We are very delighted that a domestic card scheme of African origin can be used to make payments across the world. We express our gratitude to all our partners, particularly Zenith Bank and First City Monument Bank, who have joined us today. One of the biggest assets of Verve International is our partners (both those who are here in Dubai and all others). Thank you for joining us on this epic journey to plant our footprints all over the world. We are very confident that you will remain with us as we continue to take bold steps,” he said. He added that to get a Verve Global Card is quite easy, saying customers should simply visit their banks to request one.