The Federal Government has accused the Republic of Benin of being recalcitrant in its importation of prohibited goods for ultimate dumping in to Nigeria’s market in spite the partial border closure order. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed made the accusation when he featured on a “TV Continental”, live Programme, monitored by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) “Regrettably, the signs out there are not positive in the sense that in the last few weeks, the amount of seizures that have been made do not show that our neighbours are in a hurry to comply with Nigeria. Gov. Matawalle revokes land titles, allocations on grazing reserves from 1999 to date “As we speak today, there are three ships heading toward Benin Republic laden with about 105,000 metric tons of rice. “This is a country of about 12 million people. That rice is meant for ultimate consumption of Nigerians. “In addition, Benin Republic just negotiated with Japan to receive rice worth 30 million dollars. “It is clear that the ultimate destination of the rice will be Nigeria and that is why we are appealing to our neighbours. “First preservation is the first law of survival, we are doing this to preserve our economy and the security of our country,” he said. The minister who disclosed that the border drill will be in place as long as necessary, noted that Nigeria could no longer continue to play the big brother at the expense of its economy and national security. “The facts at our disposal reveal that 10,000 vehicles are imported every month into the Cotonou seaport. “For a population of about 12 million people to be importing 120,000 vehicles in a year means that the vehicles are going to Nigeria with sufficient market. “As I have said, there is no gain without pain, there will be discomfort at the beginning ultimately we believe it is going to be to the ultimate interest of Nigeria,” he said. The minister reiterated that both Benin Republic and Niger Republic were hurting Nigeria’s economy and security because of their non compliance with the ECOWAS Protocol on Transit Goods and State of Origin. “We have been on this dialogue since 2015 and the truth of the matter is that there has never been any legitimate transit trade between us and the two countries “This is hurting our economy, affecting our security and no country will fold its arms when the overall interest of its people is being jeopardise,” he said. The minister said that government decided to prohibit sale of fuel in filling stations less than 20km away from the borders because of the high level of smuggling of the product to neighbouring  countries. He said no fewer than 160 filling stations were affected by the directive and they were in such a large number because they primarily engage in smuggling. “These are stations that when you drive into them in the day time, they will not be dispensing fuel until late in the night when they will smuggle the product across the border,” he said. Mohammed disclosed that a very sizable proportion of the subsidised imported petrol into the country was finding its way to Benin Republic, Niger Republic and some other West African countries. “What we find out is that we are actually subsidising the product not just for Nigerians but for many West African countries. “For instance, if the landing cost of pms is about N200 today, in order to cushion the effect on the people, government sells at N140 per liter. “Meaning that for every liter of fuel bought, the government is paying N60. If you consume one million litres a day, the government is paying N60 million a day. “You can imagine that from what the government pays, it is the neighboring countries that benefit about 50 per cent of it,” he said. Mohammed said that it had been provenly established that 95 per cent of illicit drugs , arms and ammunition came into the country through the land borders with attendant effect on increase in terrorism, banditry, kidnapping and other crimes. He said with the border drill directive, there had been drastic reduction smuggling of drugs and arms into the country, thereby reducing rate of crimes. The minister said that government was aware of the effects of the border drill on the citizens, particularly the spike in the price of rice, but the people must bear the temporary pains to reap the benefits. NAN reports that most of the viewers that called in to the programme supported the government on the partial border closure directive. They contended that Nigeria had been reduced to a dumping ground for decades. Some of them gave the examples of China that closed its borders for decades to achieve its vision of self reliance and becoming a nation to reckon with globally.