A two hundred level student of the department of computer science, University of Ibadan, Farouq Osuolale, has said that the zeal to tell stories through visual identity was his motivation for redesigning a logo for Innoson Vehicles. Osuolale, who said this in an interview with the Daily Times, explained that his interest in identifying and solving problems, using graphic illustrations, was his additional motivation The student whose interests are in design, brand identity, artificial intelligence, sci-fi, cars and cyber security, shared the redesigned logo on his twitter handle last month, appealing to the company’s management to recognize his work. He said, “so I am proposing a new logo for Innoson vehicles, if this comes across your timeline, please retweet.’’ ALSO READ Why content marketing is relevant for SMEs-Onwumere Reacting to his appeal on twitter, Innoson vehicles wrote, ‘’the attention of the Chairman/CEO of Innoson vehicles has been called upon on your creative re-design of IVM logo.  The Chairman is highly impressed and has requested for a meeting with you. Please send us your contact details for possible reach.’’ Osuolale who confirmed the company’s acknowledgement to Daily Times, disclosed that his dialogue with the company is still ongoing. Using the eagle as an inspiration for his design, he explained that the logo symbolizes the strength and ability of an eagle, which the company has maintained throughout its years of operation. He said, “an eagle is a bird that stands for strength. Innoson vehicles, being the first automobile manufacturing company to build made in Nigeria vehicles, has been able to exercise strength through the test of time.’’ He added that the redesigned logo is authentic, as no other vehicle brand uses the same logo. ”No other vehicle brand uses the same logo, that is what makes my work interesting. You have to come up with something original, new and unique,” he said. Osuolale, who has been designing for a while, noted that he has worked with a lot of brands over the years. While disclosing his future goals, Osuolale stated that his intention is to continue developing his branding skills as well as gain more knowledge about the IT world. ‘’I want to help brands have a world-class identity. I also want to build a world class Technology firm (Made in Nigeria Tech) that can compete with other firms in the global market,’’ he added.