•Gov
lists strategies to change course Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq on Tuesday pledged to implement reforms to ease business climate in the state, saying the current narrative about it ranking lowest in the North Central region is unacceptable. AbdulRazaq, who was presented by Deputy Governor Kayode Alabi, said various concrete steps are already being taken to make business transactions a lot easier and faster to attract investors. Africa can expand continental economy fourfold – report The Governor spoke at the North Central
regional engagement on Ease of Doing Business which was organised by the
Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) and the Kwara State
Government. The event was attended by the Special
Adviser to the President on Ease of Doing Business Dr Jumoke Oduwole; Secretary
to the Kwara State Government Prof Mamman Saba Jibril; Chief of Staff to the
Governor Aminu Adisa Logun; Kwara Commissioner-designates; PEBEC Enabling
Business Environment Secretariat Project Manager Ayokunnu Ojeniyi;
representatives of federal government agencies; several small and medium-sized
enterprises; and regulatory bodies from across the region. The Governor expressed dismay at a World
Bank report in 2018 which ranked Kwara 30th out of 37 states including the FCT
— and the lowest in the North Central — in the ease of doing business. “On the national average, according to
the report, Kwara ranked the lowest among its peers in the North Central. In
terms of starting a business, Kwara ranked 7th out of the seven states sampled
in the zone, including the Federal Capital Territory (Abuja).  In dealing with construction permit, we
ranked 4th out of seven; in registering of properties, Kwara ranked 6th out of
seven; and in terms of enforcing contract, Kwara ranked 7th out of the seven
states/places,” AbdulRazaq said. “This was the stark reality of our state
— and it only confirmed our position that this state was practically run
aground, notwithstanding the propaganda. We have decided to put these figures
in perspective not necessarily to brood over the past but to challenge
ourselves on the need to do things differently as we get set to rewrite the
story of our state. Our officials are to note that this narrative must change
going forward. Kwara must reclaim its glory!” He added however that many steps are
already being taken by his administration to turn the page, citing the ongoing
reforms at the Kwara State Internal Revenue Services (KW-IRS) and the efforts
to run e-governance which have begun with the strictly online administration of
students’ bursary and upcoming take off of e-learning from the Kwara State
Library. “Apart from security and peaceful
environment which we enjoy, this administration believes that human capital and
infrastructural development constitute important incentives for any investor as
they contribute to significantly reducing transactional costs. To this extent,
our first budget in 2020 will focus more on basic education, healthcare, and
road network, among other things. We are also irrevocably committed to building
strong institutions to drive growth.

“Kwara means business and our target is
to make our state one of Nigeria’s friendliest in the ease of doing business.
We are seriously working on e-governance whereby you can be anywhere in the
world and transact business with the government or anybody in Kwara State. As
we speak, the Kwara State Internal Revenue Service (KW-IRS) is in the process
of rearranging of our processes such that tax assessment, payment, the ting of
receipts for tax payment down to the processing of tax clearance certificate can be
initiated real time and completed online. Another upcoming reform is the
harmonisation of bills and structured payment of tax/revenue obligations. “We have also built a fully digital
bursary process which has cut off the influence of middlemen and potentially
ended a regime of criminal diversion of bursary funds. Now you can be anywhere
in the world and apply for our bursary and get paid once you satisfy all
conditions without visiting any office or knowing any official in charge.” Oduwole said PEBEC has done a lot within
the last three years to ease the business environment in Nigeria, with the
country moving many inches up the ladder in global ranking. She charged the North Central zone,
which she called a vital trade corridor in Nigeria, to break some barriers
against SMEs by implementing reforms already recommended by PEBEC which itself
has carried out over 140 reforms.