.As Visa acquires minority equity stake in Interswitch Interswitch Limited, Visa Inc. (“Visa”) have announced a strategic partnership which will further advance the digital payments ecosystem across Africa. As part of the agreement, Visa will acquire a significant minority equity stake in Interswitch, who says it focussing on the digitisation of payments in Nigeria and other countries in Africa, The investment, however, will makes Interswitch one of the most valuable African FinTech businesses with a valuation of US$1 billion. Visa will join globally renowned investors, Helios Investment Partners, TA Associates and IFC, as shareholders in Interswitch, alongside Company management. Founder and Chief Executive of Interswitch, Mitchell Elegbe said; “Sub-Saharan Africa is the fastest-growing payments market in the world, with growth driven by a young and dynamic population, rapidly evolving consumer behaviour and an increasing desire for payment solutions that can be accepted across the continent and abroad. I am delighted that Interswitch has formed a partnership with Visa, with whom we plan to drive the next phase of transformation in the African payments landscape.” Regional President CEMEA, Visa, Andrew Torre said, “Africa is a priority region for us, and we continually seek strategic partnerships with local players to further strengthen our leadership position and enhance the payments ecosystem across the continent. This the partnership aligns with our global strategy to work with and invest in innovative partners and we look forward to working with Interswitch to provide new consumer and merchant experiences and support the rapid growth of digital commerce across Africa.” Bauchi solicits World Bank support on human capital development Babatunde Soyoye, Helios’s co-founder and Managing Partner, added, “A strategic investment by Visa, the world’s leader in digital payments, into Interswitch is a substantial endorsement of the Company’s expertise in African payments. As an active investor in leading African payments businesses, we see tremendous opportunities to digitise payments across the continent and have worked closely with Interswitch’s management team to build high quality and scalable platform geared to address some of these opportunities. We look forward to furthering collaboration with the Company alongside Visa.” The transaction is subject to the relevant regulatory approvals and is expected to close by Q1 2020. FT Partners acted as exclusive strategic and financial advisor to Interswitch on this transaction.