The Ondo State Commissioner for Youth and Sports Development, Mr Dotun Owanikin, has reiterated the readiness of the state government to partner with organisations to develop grassroots sports. The commissioner spoke on Tuesday in Akure during the draw and lecture for the 11th edition of Ijapo Kunle Tuface Football Promotion tagged: “Barrister Dotun Owanikin 2019 Competition.’’ READ ALSO:  Man City open to Sterling contract talks and are relaxed over long-term future Owanikin, who was represented by the Director of Sports in the ministry, Mrs Evelyn Lebi, commended the organisers for their innovation and consistency. “We are committed to sports development to ensure the state takes the first spot in grassroots sports development among its peers,” he said. He said that creating such a competition would ensure that youths in the state were engaged and dissuaded from social vices. According to him, all round sports is the best form of youth empowerment which is part of the present government’s agenda. He promised the support of the ministry to individuals and corporate bodies that were ready to partner in developing sports. The guest speaker and ex-International, Akin Olowokere, who spoke on “Grassroots Football Development, the Way Forward 2020,” urged the upcoming stars to have passion for the game, saying, “passion ignites fire.” Olowokere added that talent alone was never enough to succeed, urging young footballers to have confidence in themselves and believe in their ability using the 3Ds of Discipline, Dedication and Determination as their guide. “Football is a terminal game, so it’s important to discover talents early, nurture them in order to complete their circle. ”Our grassroots development is not strong, we are not doing enough in that regards,” he said. He, therefore, appealed to government at all levels to play their role well in order to harness the talents that abound. The proprietor of Ijapo Kunle Tuface Football Promotion, Nigeria, Mr Ayokunle Oluwatope, said the seminar and the symposium were organised to brainstorm on how to address and improve on inadequate areas discovered during previous editions. He revealed that the purpose of the competition scheduled to kick-off on Sunday was to discover talents at the grassroots and for government to have confidence in them. Oluwatope said that the competition had produced many talents like Nzube Anazemba, Seun Olulayo and Kehinde Adedipe who were still doing well in their various careers. While reading the rules of the competition to the participating teams as attached to their forms, he assured them of an improved edition. He said the winner and first runner up of the competition would receive N50,000 and N30,000 as well as former Sunshine Stars midfielder Kehinde Adedipe’s  branded jersey.