Abuja – The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and the United States Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) have concluded arrangement to sign a 1.16 million dollar grant as part funding for the NNPC-Abuja Independent Power Project (IPP). The Corporation disclosed this in a statement by Mr Samson Makoji, Acting Spokesman for NNPC, in Abuja on Thursday. He said that the arrangement was the outcome of a business meeting between the Management of NNPC and the USTDA at the NNPC Towers. Makoji noted that both parties agreed to close out the deal on Dec. 1, adding that the IPP was modeled to generate 1,350 megawatts of electricity to alleviate the power challenge in the country. The Group Managing Director of the NNPC, Malam Mele Kyari, said that the plan by the corporation to build the 1,350mw power plant in Abuja was part of the national strategy to monetize the abundant natural gas resources in the country. He added that the USDTA grant was to complement the ongoing feed project in order to make the Abuja IPP initiative more bankable for strategic investors’ participation. “As a state-owned oil company and enabler organisation, we know that our investment in the Abuja 1,350mw IPP will increase energy supply level with great impact on the nation’s economy. “Therefore, the USTDA grant is timely to make it a bankable project that would attract foreign direct investment into the country,” he said. The GMD assured the U.S. team that every money given as grant to the corporation would be fully utilised and accounted for. “This company is focused on making our systems and processes transparent and accountable and that is why we are engaging world class institutions with good track record in execution of our projects,” the GMD explained. He called on the USTDA to look beyond feasibility studies to actual delivery of the project, stressing that the power plant project has a lot of viable investment opportunities. Also read : EFCC seeks separate trial for Dauski, co-defendants In her remark, the Country Manager, Power Africa and the leader of the USTDA delegation, Jullian Foerster, stated that her organisation was determined to work with the corporation to sign off on the grant not later than Dec.1. She said that USTDA was open to other business opportunities in the coming year, 2020, noting that NNPC’s strategic role as a key player in the oil and gas industry made the U.S. Agency to “jump at the opportunity to work on this deal” of providing support in the form of a grant. (NAN)