The House of Representatives on Tuesday implored the Federal Government to facilitate interaction between mining employers, examine mining policy issues and create partnerships with key stakeholders. This House members canvassed is to enable the government come up with
modern policies, legislative and functional environment to facilitate real
investments in gold mining. This followed the unanimous adoption of a motion moved by Rep. Oghene Egoh (PDP/Lagos) during plenary presided over by Deputy Speaker Idris Wase on Tuesday. Bring Diezani to court or …, Court warns EFCC The motion was tagged, “Need to prioritise gold mining as one of the
major earners of revenue to the nation.” Presenting the motion, Rep. Egoh recalled that the Federal Government
banned all mining activities in Zamfara State on April 7. He said the government also directed all foreigners operating in the
mining fields to leave within 48 hours and threatened to revoke the licence of
any defiant mining operator. The lawmaker said that Nigeria has about 21.40 tonnes of gold
deposits, adding that “therefore there is the need for many large scale gold
mining companies, gold mining policies, state-of-the-art geological survey. “This includes map production and maintenance of up to date geological
records; health and safety inspections and maintenance records; legal records
of licences and legal examination of new applications, among others.” The House member said, according to reports, Nigeria loses $9 billion
to illegal mining every year and many lives are lost due to mining activities
that ignored environmental protection policies. He said that official records showed that mining in Nigeria, however,
accounted for 0.3 per cent of the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). He emphasised that the poor records meant that “the Federal Government
may not have official records of the amount of mineral deposits in Nigeria, which
if ascertained, could make the mineral sector one of the largest contributors
to government’s revenues through the payment of royalties, employees income
taxes and corporate taxes.” The House expressed concern that illegal miners cart away billions of
dollars’ worth of gold yearly, leaving Zamfara State “with poor state of
education and inadequate healthcare system.” Consequently, it resolved that 30 per cent derivation from gold
earnings would positively boost the economy of the state if the resources were
effectively managed by the government, while the remaining 70 per cent goes
into the federation account. The House also urged the Federal Ministry of Mines and Steel
Development to provide geological records of gold deposits in Nigeria and
further directed the House Committee on Solid Minerals Development to ensure
compliance.