The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has berated the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over the call for postponement of the Kogi West senatorial supplementary poll and threat to boycott the election. It described PDP’s threat as a huge joke and that no level of propaganda and fake news can change the hard facts that Senator Dino Melaye was rejected by the people of Kogi West. The party in a statement by its national publicity secretary, Lanre Issa- Onilu, said the PDP should stop its lamentation and prepare for the November 30 supplementary poll. “The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has fixed November 30 for the Senatorial supplementary election in Kogi West district. The PDP has predictably gone to town with the usual lamentations on the forthcoming supplementary election. The PDP has even threatened to boycott the election. Who is fooling who? “Nobody is fooled by the PDP’s statement boycotting the supplementary election. The All Progressives Congress (APC) will not drop its guard in our quest to get a clear majority of the remaining votes in the affected units. “Why should the supplementary election be cancelled as being demanded by the PDP? Is it because the PDP has already lost the election? “As the wide margin of valid votes from the November 16 exercise show, it is clear that Dino Melaye and the PDP have lost the election. PDP’s doomsday will surely not be postponed a second time. Come November 30, the APC candidate, Senator Smart Adeyemi will reclaim his earlier stolen mandate. “How many times does the PDP need to be reminded that APC has not and will not copy the PDP’s inglorious tactics of using state institutions, particularly INEC, the judiciary and security agencies to manipulate the electioneering process? “The business of the National Assembly is a serious one, equally meant for serious and patriotic-minded persons. The Kogi electorate have decidedly rejected individuals who sacrificed national interest to achieve their selfish political agenda”, the party said. Read Also: NDDC donates medical kits, vaccines to flood victims in Rivers The APC recalled the lead roles Senator Dino Melaye played in frustrating the 2019 budget, legislative approval for INEC’s election budget, and executive interventions requiring Senate approvals. The party further said “commendably, those days are gone as the Nigerian electorate have thrown out the unpatriotic and sabotaging legislators. The National Assembly and the executive now enjoy a cordial relationship that ensures good governance and brings dividends to the people”. It called on INEC and relevant security agencies to ensure that everything needed to make the November 30 senatorial supplementary election in Kogi transparent, free, credible and safe is put in place.