Moses Oyediran, Enugu The Enugu Electricity Distribution Company (EEDC) has commenced the implementation of the meter asset provider programme and is calling on its customers to take advantage of the initiative and get metered within 10 days of payment. This follows the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) approval of the meter manufacturing firm, Mojec International Limited and the directive to all power distribution companies to commence implementation. It will be recalled that the programme was initiated by the federal government and NERC last year to help hasten, and close the existing metering gap in the power distribution sector through the engagement of third party agents saddled with the responsibility of metering electricity customers. According to the Head of Communications, EEDC, Emeka Ezeh, the organisation has been working closely with Mojec International Limited to ensure that the implementation of the scheme is smooth and easy for customers. Ezeh said the meters will cost N36, 991.50 and N67, 055.85 for single phase and three phase meters respectively, exclusive of VAT. For customers to get started, they are expected to visit the EEDC district office in charge of their area from June 15 to pick up the meter application form. “The forms which are serialised will be issued to customers free of charge and should not be photocopied as the photocopied version will not be treated,” Ezeh further stated. He explained further that once the customer completes the form and returns it to the customer service representative, the pre-survey process will be initiated after which the customer will be issued a demand note with which to pay for the meter at the designated bank. “Once payment is made, the MAP is under obligation to meter the customer within 10 days of payment. Customers are therefore, advised to only make payment into a dedicated bank account that will be provided to them and not to any individual or group. “It is important to reiterate that the meter application form is issued at no cost and customers should make payment to designated bank account that will be provided to them through the demand note and they should not pay to any staff of the MAP or EEDC,” Ezeh added.