A 41-year-old man, identified as Sunday Ngwu has allegedly beaten his wife to death over an undisclosed marital issue in Ibollo, Idemili North local government area of Anambra State. The suspect, a native of Nkanu local government area of Enugu State, reportedly engaged his wife in a fight on Monday night. According to reports,  the suspect and his late wife, identified as Amara had been living peacefully in an apartment at Ikwo street of the area before the incident happened. A neighbor, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said fight broke out between them after a heated argument, during which the suspect thoroughly beat her up. She said: “Even though he had upper hand in the fight, he still proceeded to use a heavy metal to smash her head, leaving her in that unconscious state.” The neighbor, who feigned ignorance of the cause of the fracas, however revealed that the man had been arrested. The Police spokesperson in the state, Haruna Mohammed, confirmed the incident. He said the matter has been transferred to Awka while the corpse had been deposited in a morgue. According to him: “On the 10/6/2019 at about 8:pm, Police detectives attached to Awada Division arrested one Sunday Ngwu ‘m’ aged 41 years from Nkanu LGA of Enugu State but resides at Ikwo Street Ibollo in Idemili North LGA of Anambra State. “Suspect allegedly beat his wife one Amara Ngwu ‘f’ aged 39 years of the same address to pulp and then used a heavy metal object to hit her on the head leaving her unconscious. “Scene was visited by Police detectives attached to Awada Division and victim rushed to Bex hospital where she was confirmed dead on arrival by a medical Doctor and corpse deposited at the mortuary for autopsy. “The Commissioner of Police, Mustapha Dandaura has ordered for immediate transfer of the case to State Criminal Investigation Department, Awka to conduct a discreet investigation in order to ascertain circumstances surrounding the incident after which suspect would be charged to Court for prosecution.”