Stakeholders in Abakaliki, Ebonyi state have tasked Senate President Ahmed Lawan to enthrone a robust legislative and executive relationship. The stakeholders, who spoke in Abakaliki, described the emergence of Sen. Lawan as victory for democracy and urged thwe Senate president and other senators to join hands with the executive to end insecurity in Nigeria through appropriate laws and resolutions. Former Commissioner for Works, Housing and Transportation and a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ebonyi state, Dr. Paul Okorie, said that Lawan’s victory was a good development and reflection of the party’s position. He said that Lawan’s leadership would usher in an era of harmonious relationship between the legislature and executive arms of government, adding that ‘‘there will no longer be the usual dog and cat fight; rancour, bickering and muscle-flexing between the Presidency and the National Assembly, which slowed down governance in the last administration. ‘‘Lawan and other principal officers of the Senate who emerged should see their victories as a call to service and should therefore not be carried away. The destiny of the nation is now in their hands and in the hands of Mr President and must therefore, work harmoniously to move the country forward. ‘‘They should be interested in making good laws that will uplift the lives of the people of Nigeria, advance the cause of good governance and address economic challenges facing the country,’’ Okorie said. He described Lawan as an experienced lawmaker who would deploy his wealth of experience in legislative process to advance the nation’s democracy. ‘‘Lawan has been in the Senate since the beginning of the new democratic dispensation and he is not going to be a push-over because he is going to ensure that the independence of the legislature is not compromised,’’ he added. The Dean, Faculty of Social Sciences, Ebonyi state University (EBSU), Prof. Eugene Nweke, said that the emergence of Lawan as the new president of the Senate marks a new beginning in the nation’s legislative process. He said that Lawan emerged through popular votes and through a keenly contested election unlike what happened during the inauguration of the 8th Senate. He said that there was a consensus across party lines in favour of Lawan, stressing that the election also provided room for competition between APC candidates.