Andrew Orolua, Abuja The Federal High Court in Ikoyi, Lagos on Monday sentenced a former acting Director-General, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Calistus Obi, to 42 years imprisonment. The court also sentenced Alu Dismas Adoon, an aide to Patrick Akpobolokemi, a former NIMASA director-general to 42 years imprisonment. Obi and Dismas were found guilty on counts two, three, four, six, seven and eight.  The court accordingly, convicted them and sentenced them to seven years imprisonment each on each count. Passing the sentence, Justice Mojisola Olatoregun however, gave the convicts an option of fine of N42 million on each of the count and also, imposed a N10 million fine on the third and fourth convicts; Global Sea Investment and Grand Pact Limited. The convicts were arraigned on April 12, 2016 on an eight-count charge bordering on conspiracy, conversion, and money laundering amounting to N136 million. One of the counts reads: “That you, Callistus Nwabueze Obi and Dismas Alu Adoon, on or about August 5, 2014 in Lagos, did conspire amongst yourselves to commit an offence to wit; conversion of N111, 000, 000.00 property of NIMASA knowing that the said sums were proceeds of stealing and thereby, committed an offence.” They both pleaded not guilty to the charges, thereby setting the stage for their trial. During the course of trial, the prosecution called eight witnesses and tendered several documents, which were admitted in evidence by the court. When the sentencing hearing began, prosecution counsel, Rotimi Oyedepo urged the court to pronounce sentence prohibiting the crime and impose maximum sentence on the convicts, having allowed the court to go through the rigours of full scale trial without taking advantage of Section 270 which would have saved the time of the court through accelerating hearing of the matter. He also told the court that Section 15(3) of the Money Laundering Prohibition Act has limited the discretion of the court in sentencing the convicts, explaining that the crime committed by the convicts attracts the maximum sentence of not more 14 years and not less than seven years in prison. He urged the court to order the convicts to make restitution or make compensation to the victim of the crime, which is NIMASA and order the return of the embezzled funds and a company, LA Diva Hotels and Events Limited situated at Plot 12, Phase 4, Cora Area, Asaba, Delta state belonging to the first defendant, which forms part of the proceeds of crime.