…Says no basis for INEC’s appeal By Tunde Opalana, Abuja Former Governor of Imo state, Senator Rochas Okorocha has cautioned his Igbo compatriots to accept the fact that the clamour for an Igbo Presidency should be well structured in alliance with other geo-political zones of the country. Okorocha warned that the South East should not expect political power on a platter of gold, but to lobby other regions of the country towards attaining power. Addressing the media shortly after his inauguration as senator representing Imo West Senatorial District, Sen. Okorocha said the Igbos should work towards taken power at the centre, adding that “power is not given, power is taken. “The South East cannot just fold their arms and expect power to be given to them just because you want power. Power does not go with sentiment some of the times; it’s on issues on ground. Democracy is about the people and South East alone cannot make themselves president. “So you cannot be talking about Igbo presidency, it doesn’t exist. We may be talking about Nigeria’s president of Igbo extraction, but that depends on what other geo-political zones think about the issue. “There is need for the Igbos to mend fences. We are neither here or there now politically. We are not in the ruling party, neither are we making impact in the opposition. So, there is need for us to get married to the rest of the nation politically “For me, what is important is let power be given to somebody who has something upstairs who can put food on the table of the common man, irrespective of religion or where you come from.” Okorocha denied forcing an official of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) undress duress to alter the Imo West senatorial result in his favour. “Duress means using mild or excessive force to compel someone to do something he or she does not want to do. How would you have done that in a returning hall where you have the police, DSS and party agents? “And then, me walking with a gun or machete asking them to write result on my behalf. That didn’t happen. I think there is more to duress than duress itself.” He however, frowned at INEC decision to challenge the ruling of the Federal High Court, Abuja that ordered the release of his withheld certificate of return. He said “it will be very surprising to see that INEC will appeal this matter because there is no basis for it.” On the late issuance of certificate of return to him, he challenged those behind his travails, if any, to be bold enough to own up, saying that “they assume what someone told them after five days”. Okorocha gave gratitude to God for the privilege to be sworn in as a senator despite the troubles he went through Appreciating the judiciary for retrieving his mandate, the former governor said “I want to thank the judiciary. Without them I won’t be here. I commend INEC for releasing my certificate. It’s a learning process.” Speaking on his mission at the Senate, Okorocha said “one of it is that the bridge connecting the South East and the North. I will build the bridge. Free education is what I want to achieve. I am concerned about the killings in the North West, especially Zamfara and Kaduna states. Whatever we can do to curb it, I will work with my colleagues to achieve that.” The former governor was earlier formally inaugurated as member of the 9th Senate at plenary on Thursday. Okororocha was sworn-in by the Clerk of the Senate, Nelson Ayewoh after he was formally introduced by the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan.