Charles Onyekwere, Abakaliki The Onu Political Organisation (TOPO) has urged Nigerians to discountenance rumours of the appointment of the former Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu as secretary to the government of the federation by President Muhammadu Buhari. The group expressed shock at the rumour making the rounds in a section of the social media that the former minister has been appointed to the position by the President. National Publicity Secretary of the group, Chief Egwu Chima, who addressed newsmen in Abakaliki on Saturday, said that the rumour was unfounded, mischievous and with no iota of truth. The group therefore, urged Onu’s supporters, fans and loyalists to disregard and discountenance the said rumour, adding that “first and foremost, the organisation believes that Onu is qualified to be appointed into any political position in Nigeria. “But, the mode of the news and the mode of the announcement of the appointment is one which organizations like ours must question and we questioned it. “Onu is a very easy going character and is not somebody who speculates; he is not somebody who allows ambition to rule his life, he is not somebody who dwells on the realm of speculations and he is not a person who jumps the gun to assume things. “What we are saying is that neither the political organization nor any member of the organization has heard any hint from him that something like that will be coming our way.” Chima said that what was very evident was that Onu as a former minister distinguished himself while he presided over the affairs of the science and technology ministry and was never linked to corruption allegation. He said that the former minister believed in results and was achievement oriented as had been widely acknowledged and attested to by those he worked with at the ministry, asserting that Onu’s intimidating credentials and achievements qualified him for any position in Nigeria. “When the rumour came without any official confirmation from Onu, the tendency is to begin to think about two things; because his credentials are too great and intimidating, his political opponents in the zone may have begun to wish him death or to pull him down. “Many over -ambitious politicians from his zone believe that with him around that they may never get to achieve their vaulting ambitions the same way they wished Buhari dead and may have devised this strategy to portray Onu in bad light. “Onu is not behind the rumour and can never be. It is the antics of his detractors who want to blackmail him and pin him against the establishment; he is as innocent as a new born baby.”