Chukwuemeke Iwelunmo Egypt Air, Africa’s first airline and only the seventh in the world has appointed a new General Manager based in Lagos to oversee the affairs of the airline in Nigeria. The firm new manager, Mr Muharram Abdel Rahman is an MBA holder in Pricing and Management with 25 years experience in the aviation industry under his belt. Before his recent appointment, he had served as Abuja Office Manager for four years from 2009 to 2013 before he was recalled to the Head Quarters in Cairo where he was Pricing Manager. He graduated from the Faculty of Arts, English Department from Minia University and has an IATA/UFTAA Consultant Diploma. And during his stay in Abuja he succeeded in growing the airlines’ frequency from two (2) weekly flights to daily flights. Sharing his vision for Nigeria, Mr Muharram, as he is fondly called said: “Lagos is the business capital of Nigeria. Lagos market for me and as an airline is a good market. It is a potential market for me. I can find all the segments that I need to reach out to in Lagos. It is a good market and my plan is that within one year we can get up to ten (10) flights per week and within two years we can operate double daily flights from Lagos. This will bring our frequencies to fourteen (14) flights per week operating double daily.” Speaking further about his strategy to make this ambitious goal a reality, the new GM said: “We are not just only going to concentrate on the segment of passengers going only to Egypt. We are also targeting all segments in the market. For instance, there is the students segment. I know that many students are going to Saudi Arabia to study or they are going abroad to study. So we are targeting this people. “We are also targeting traders going to Bangkok, Guangzhou and Asian countries for trade. So we are offering a special package for this segment of traders. Traders need excess baggage allowance because they have goods to be brought to Nigeria. So we are offering them excess baggage to encourage them to fly EgyptAir. As for the students we are offering them 25 per cent discounts,” he added.