By Tunde Opalana, Abuja Senate President Bukola Saraki has directed the National Assembly management to distribute his severance allowance to the families of Leah Sharibu and two other aid workers killed by Boko Haram terrorists. He also instructed that children of late senators in need of financial assistance benefit from the allowance. In a statement by his Special Adviser (Media and Publicity), Yusuph Olaniyonu, Saraki stated the families of Hussaini Ahmed Khoisan and Hauwa Liman, the two murdered aid workers by Boko Haram fighters should also be included. In the case of the late senators’ children, Saraki directed that a trust fund should be established by the management of the National Assembly for those who may require financial assistance in furtherance of their education. He stated that his decision to use the severance package to support the selected victims of the insurgency was based on the fact that their cases represented some of the most touching humanitarian issues debated at the plenary during the four-years of the eighth Senate and on which his colleagues and himself made emotional and passionate speeches. According to him, 20 per cent of the severance allowance is to be donated to the family of Leah Sharibu while 20 per cent is also to be paid to the family of Hauwa Liman, the aid worker brutally murdered by Boko Haram after she was captured. Another 20 per cent is to be donated to the family of the second aid worker, Hussaini Ahmed Khoisan, also murdered in the same circumstance by Boko Haram. The remaining 40 per cent should be used by the National Assembly management to set up a trust fund that will assist children of deceased members of the eighth Senate who are in financial need for their education. “It is my hope that this trust fund should grow with more contributions from my dear colleagues, present, past and future that may be moved to put in additional money into it. “The clerk of the National Assembly will immediately get an official letter from me mandating him to act as stated above on the disbursement of my severance allowance,” the statement added.