Alade Tasma The Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu may have made history when he delegated his deputy, Dr Obafemi Hamzat on Friday to proclaim the 9th session of the Assembly of the State parliament, a development many see as the first in recent political history for a once in four year function. Sanwo Olu was said to have gone to represent the State at a function in Abuja hence the decision to delegate his deputy. Ordinarily, the Lagos 9th Assembly was to be proclaimed on the 10th of June having had the 8th Assembly proclaimed on the 8th of June, 2015 and since 8th of June, 2019 fell on a Saturday, the next week day which is Monday becomes appropriate date for the inauguration, but for reasons known to the leadership of the House, the event was brought forward to Friday and the governor was not available to perform the duty of proclaiming the Assembly. Meanwhile, the member elect representing Agege constituency 01, who is also the immediate past Speaker of the House, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Ajayi Obasa was re-elected to lead   the 9th Assembly. Obasa was nominated for the position by the same lawmaker who nominated him for same position four years ago, Hon. Moshood Oshun representing Lagos Mainland Constituency 2, the nomination was however, seconded by Hon. Yinka Ogundimu from Agege Constituency 2. Also elected is the deputy Speaker, Hon. Wasiu Sanni Eshinlokun representing Lagos Island constituency 01. Eshinlokun retained the position he occupied in the 8th Assembly. The Lagos Prince was nominated for the position by Hon. Tunde Braimoh while a theater practitioner turned lawmaker, Hon. Desmond Elliot representing Surulere constituency 01 seconded the nomination. All the Principal officers of the 8th Assembly were however returned to office in the current Assembly except the deputy chief Whip of the House in the last Assembly, Hon. Omotayo Oduntan who did not return to the House. Oduntan aspired to move to the House of Representatives but lost to Hon. Femi Adebanjo for the Alimosho Federal constituency. Hon. Mosunmola Sangodara representing Surulere constituency 02 however, emerged the Deputy Chief Whip of the 9th Assembly. Hon. Sanai Oyeniran Agunbiade representing Ikorodu constituency 01 retained the Majority Leader position, Hon Rotimi Lateef Abiru, Chief Whip and Hon. Wahab Jimoh, the Deputy Majority Leader. Proclaiming the 9th Assembly, Governor Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, as represented by his Deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, appreciated the people of Lagos State for their support at the polls, urging the lawmakers to live up to the expectations of the people. He said, “As you commence the legislative duties, it is important to remind ourselves that we are all accountable to the people of the state. “The essence of democracy is checks and balances and separation of power. Lagos State has always been a pacesetter and it will continue to remain one. “As progressive partners in this dispensation, we have a responsibility to raise the bar and it is important to uphold this. We should activate the process to develop the state that is home to over 20 million people,” he said. Sanwo-Olu added that the responsibility for oversight functions and the accuracy with which it deserved was very important for the lawmakers. The governor stressed that he was committed to the full implementation of the 2019 budget, which he said was important to the progress of the people of the state. “I will be seeking your support for the quick passage of some bills that will be useful for the progress of the state. “I must congratulate all of us for the victory at the polls. We must honour our National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinunu that has worked hard to sustain our democracy. I wish you a successful tenure in the 9th Assembly,” he said. Earlier in his welcome address, the Clerk of the House, Mr. Azeez Sanni revealed that the 40 members of the 9th Assembly were all members the All Progressives Congress (APC). Of this numbers, 29 members of the 8th Assembly were reelected into the 9th Assembly while 11 were elected for their first four years. The 9th Lagos Assembly parades one fifth term member, in the person of the Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, three fourth term members, eight third term members and 15 second term members.