*Sacks LG chairmen, councillors, dissolves boards By Val Okara, Owerri Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo state has approved the constitution of a nine -man interim committee on the recovery of movable assets of government with Jasper Ndubuaku as the chairman while Okechukwu Azu is to serve as secretary. Other members include, Ken Anaeme, Casmir Okoroafor, Reginald Udenze, Ernest Njesi, Odionyenma Charles, Ejikeme Collins and Ezenwa Iloh The committee is expected to ascertain and document all movable properties belonging to the Imo state government which are presently held by unauthorized persons, including past government officials. Secretary to State Government (SSG), Chief Uche Onyegucha directed the committee to recover and return to the Government House or other designated government premises such recovered movable properties, irrespective of their conditions for official use or disposal wherever they may be found across the country. The committee has until July 31 to conclude its work and submit a comprehensive report to the office of the secretary to the government of Imo state. In another development, Gov. Ihedioha has approved the dismissal of council chairmen, vice chairmen, councillors and political appointees of the local governments in the state. The suspension was contained in the instrument signed by the governor, pursuant to the recommendation made to him by the Imo state House of Assembly. This is pursuant also, to the provisions of Sections 4, 5, and 6 of the Local Government Administration (amendment) Law, 2019 and Section 73 (3) of the Imo state Local Government Administration Law No 15 of 2, 000 (as amended) and all other laws enabling him. The governor has set up interim management committees to manage the affairs of each local government for six months. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Chibuike Onyeukwu stated that the directors of administration and general services of each local government have been directed to take over the management of the councils, pending the confirmation of interim management committees by the state assembly. Also, the governor  approved the dissolution and removal of the chairman and members of the Imo state Independent Electoral Commission (ISIEC). This is following a resolution supported by two-thirds majority of the state assembly members passed on June 6, 2019 seeking their removal from office. The action is also in accordance with the provisions of Section 7 (1) of the Imo state Independent Electoral Commission Law and all other extant laws of the state. The commission will be reconstituted in due course to put in place the machinery for conducting credible elections into the local governments and further directed that the affected officers to handover to the most senior civil servant in the commission. Similarly, the governor also approved the dissolution of all statutory boards, corporations, agencies and parastatals. This is in line with relevant enabling laws of the state. The chairmen and members of the boards were directed to handover to the most senior civil servant in their various establishments. Meanwhile, the state House of Assembly has approved the nominees of the 27 interim management committee as submitted by the governor. The appointees are Solomon Onwuegbuchulam (Owerri North); Dr. Anslem Opara (Ikeduru); Innocent Ekenma (Owerri West); Ebere Chukwuemeka (Owerri Municipal); Ugo Canice Mba (Mbaitoli); Charles Abara (Ngor Okpala); Jonathan Onyeneke (Aboh Mbaise); Sam Ahiarakwem (Ahiazu Mbaise); Getrude Iroeme (Ezinihitte Mbaise); Okey Onyejiaka (Nwangele); Lawrence Nwadike (Nkwerre); Obodoshaa Agwubuo (Njaba) and Nnamdi Nsoromotu (Isu). Others are Ifeanyi Okwara (Ideato South); Ernest Njesi (Ideato North); Aloysius Oluigbo (Orlu); Herbert Ubah (Orsu); Dympna Mbiamnozie (Oru East); Akunnakwe Kenneth (Oru West); Hillary Eberendu (Oguta); Damian Ezeruo (Ohaji Egbema); Chief Silas Onyeiwu (Onuimo); Jasper Chukwuemeka (Obowo); Ben Nwaoluka (Ehime Mbano); Maureen Onyekele (Ihitte Uboma) Paul Uche (Okigwe) and Ngozi Oguike (Isiala Mbano).