By Titus Akhigbe,Benin Tension is rising at the Edo state House of Assembly as a combined team of security agents made up of the police and Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) took over the premises of the assembly on Monday. Our correspondent who visited the complex observed several  security vehicles stationed at the entrance to the assembly while the main and exit gates of the complex were under lock and key, preventing  members of staff from gaining access to the complex. It was gathered that the development was not unconnected with the leadership tussle between the state Governor, Godwin Obaseki and his predecessor, Adams Oshiomhole, the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC). It was also learnt that the securitymen were at the assembly apparently  to forestall the incoming lawmakers said to be loyal to Oshiomhole to elect principal officers of the assembly, especially the speaker in the absence of the governor who is said to be in Abuja. The governor was said to be rooting for Frank Okiye, representing Esan North-East 1 as speaker while Adams Oshiomhole favours the choice of Victor Edoror, representing Esan Central Constituency as speaker. It was further gathered that the governor was yet to transmit the letter of proclamation of the assembly to the clerk of the House for the inauguration of the seventh assembly. Addressing staff at the assembly, Chairman, Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria (PASAN), Umar Farouk, condemned the action of the police, saying the police have no right to lock them outside their offices. According to the media aide to the governor, Crusoe Osagie, the governor is still in Abuja following his election as the vice chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Governors’ Forum and that he can’t be in Abuja and be issuing proclamation of the convening of the assembly. He assured that as soon as the governor is back from Abuja, he would proclaim the assembly into being. On the police presence at the assembly, Osagie “said the police were there because the 6th assembly has ended and another one is yet to start, and people may take the advantage of the lacuna to commit illegality. “So people should not be surprised that the police are there. They are there to do their duty and forestall a breakdown of law and order,” he said.