By Mathew Dadiya, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has asked traditional rulers in the country to go back to their cultural roles so as to help the government address the prevailing security challenges in parts of the country. The President enjoined community and traditional leaders to monitor closely the activities of people in their domains with a view to assisting law- enforcement agencies to secure their communities. Buhari gave the directive on Monday while responding to concerns raised by a delegation of Zamfara Advocacy Group during an audience at the State House, Abuja. He described as unfortunate, “the failure of local leadership in intelligence gathering in the country,” even as he assured that security and law -enforcement agencies “are capable of safeguarding the country, its people and property.” The President said the military and the police have been taking drastic measures to check the activities of some local elements threatening the peace of the communities, including preventing farmers from going to their farms. “I assure you, I get daily reports from people in the field and traditional rulers. I also meet regularly with the leadership of the security agencies and they have been directed to deploy their personnel to secure the society,” Buhari said. He commended the new governor of Zamfara state, Bello Matawalle, for being proactive in addressing the security challenges. Speaking on behalf of the delegation, Usman Balarabe, while congratulating President Buhari on his re-election, said the “situation in Zamfara remains dire,” citing increased attacks, deaths, injuries and displacements. “We are here because we believe Mr. President and his administration can put in place solid measures to bring about peace and security, and also mitigate the endemic poverty that has made this region one of the poorest in the world,” he added. The delegation which also included the wife of the Governor of Kaduna state, Asia Mohammed Ahmed and renowned journalist, Kadaria Ahmed, called for greater collaboration among stakeholders at securing the nation’s borders and permanently situating a major military presence in the state, among other suggestions.