The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Kano Command has deployed no less than 1, 000 personnel to strategic points ahead of the Eid-el-Fitr celebrations in the state. This command’s Public Relations Officer, Ibrahim Isah, said this in a statement made available to newsmen in Kano on Monday. He said the personnel deployed include, those in a special unit on joint task operations with sister security agencies to provide security at border corridors with neighbouring states. According to him, the command had also deployed a number of its personnel at some strategic places in the metropolis to enhance security in the areas. Isah warned miscreants, popularly known as ‘Yan’daba,’ who might want to use the period of the Eid-el-Fitr celebrations to cause trouble, to refrain from doing so or face the wrath of the law. The public relations officer also called on the public to cooperate with security personnel by reporting suspected miscreants to them for prompt action. He said that the corps and other security agencies in the state were at alert to ensure that residents had hitch-free Eid-el-Fitr celebrations. …deploys 1, 500 personnel in Jigawa Jigawa state Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) says it has deployed 1,500 personnel to ensure hitch-free Eid-el-Fitr celebration in the state. The NSCDC Spokesman in the state, Adamu Shehu, made this known in an interview in Dutse on Monday. Shehu said that the state Commandant of the corps, Alhaji Garba Muhammad had ordered the immediate deployment of officers and men from various departments and units, including special armed squad, counter terrorism, intelligence operations, disaster management and medical unit. He explained that the deployment would cover all the 27 local government areas of the state, adding that “emphasis will however, be given to strategic places such as Eid grounds, durbar routes, recreational centres, markets, malls, government installations as well as other identified vulnerable areas.” The spokesman said that the commandant charged the personnel to discharge their duties diligently and professionally and urged the people to be law-abiding and security conscious. He also appealed to motorists and other road users cooperate with the NSCDC and other security personnel on duty during the period and beyond to avert road crashes. “We urge the public to be vigilant and report any suspicious movement to the nearest security formation within their localities. The command wishes the good people of Jigawa happy and hitch-free Sallah celebrations,” he said.