Tunde Opalana, Abuja Imo State Governor, His Excellency Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha CON has approved the appointments of Hon. Uche Onyeagucha  as Secretary to the State Government (SSG) and  Chief Chris Okewulonu as his Chief of Staff (COS) The governor has also appointed Barr. Chima Nwana asDeputy Chief of Staff (DCOS) and Chief Chinemerem Madu- as Chief of Protocol (COP) The new SSG, Hon. Onyeagucha, a lawyer, studied at the University of Calabar as well as Rivers State University of Science and Technology where he graduated with degrees in History and Law respectively. He was a member of the House of Representatives (2003 – 2007), where he represented Owerri Federal Constituency, a pro-democracy campaigner and ardent human rights activist. . He has held the position of Special Adviser on Policy and Strategic Matters to the Imo State Governor. He was one of the leaders of Campaign for Democracy, Democratic Alternative, Civil Liberties Organization and United Action for Democracy that led to the return of democracy in 1999. Chief Okewulonu, the Chief of Staff, is a legal Practitioner by training and has held key positions of trust in government. He was a member of Imo House of Assembly, former Hon. Commissioner in the state, former Secretary to Imo State Government. He was later appointed the Federal Commissioner, representing the South East in Fiscal Responsibility Commission Abuja. He was the Director General, Ihedioha Campaign Organization (2013 – 2015) and a tested and experienced public administrator. He hails from Obowo LGA. Barr. Nwana was trained in the leading institutions, including the University of Nigeria ,(LL.B) Thames Valley University U.K.,(Post Graduate  Certificate) the Management School London, ILO Training Institute, Turin Italy etc. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Mediators and Conciliators ICMC, Maritime Law Consultant, Chartered Mediator and governance expert. He has diverse public service experience, previously serving variously as Special Assistant to the Federal Ministers of Commerce & Industry as well as Employment, Labour & Productivity. He has also been a member of key Federal Government Committees including Presidential Committee on Maritime Security, Ministerial Committee on Cabotage, Trade Policy Review and Ministerial Committee on National Transport Commission etc. He hails from Ideato North LGA. Chief Chinemerem Madu holds a B.Sc and MBA  Degrees from the University of Lagos. He was the 2nd Best Graduating Student (MBA 2006)  and President, MBA Students’ Association. He became the PDP Chairman, Ezinihitte LGA,in 2009, and was re-elected in 2016, a position he holds till date. He also has robust experience from his stint in the banking sector and at various levels of corporate executive management Expectedly, they will bring their vast experience to bear in their respective positions.