Telecoms service provider and technology innovation leader, Globacom Limited, has called on parents to give their children early exposure to technology, and tech-related subjects to enable them compete favourably in the innovation space, as the world becomes more digitally oriented. The company urged greater interest by girl-children in subjects like mathematics, physics, engineering and computing. Globacom’s Account Manager, Public Sector, Lagos Zone, Mrs. Justina Abdulateef, made the assertions at  this year’s commemoration of the International Girls in ICT Day by eBusinessLife magazine. According to Abdulateef, the ICT space requires a broad range of skills, noting that operators in the sector are continually looking for talented individuals with those skills to play various roles. She also implored school girls across the country to take active interest in science subjects that could help them play prominent roles in the technology world in the future. She lamented that stereotypes and discrimination had deterred many girls from pursuing interests in Information and Communication Technology, suggesting the need to break these stereotypes early in life in order to create meaningful access to ICT for girls and women. “The growth potential is enormous for ICT professionals, and there are many areas you can decide to focus on. You could choose to be a software developer, a webmaster, web designer, animator or data analyst, among many others”, Abdulateef advised. Also speaking at the event which was attended by hundreds of school girls from 15 prominent schools in Lagos, Mrs. Ufuoma Daro, the Chief Executive Officer of eBusiness Life, the organisers of the event, thanked Globacom for supporting the initiative this year again, recalling that the company was also one of the companies that made it possible for the event to hold last year. She called on other corporate bodies to support initiatives that are aimed at empowering the womenfolk in the overall interest of the country. The ceremony drew participation from leading lights in the ICT industry, including representatives of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), leading ICT companies and policy-makers.