By Doosuur Iwambe, Abuja Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, has said that the agency has secured 1, 207 convictions in four years and five months. Magu, who also revealed that the battle against corruption will get tougher as the nation moves to the Next Level said, the anti-corruption campaign has achieved more results under the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. “The convictions secured by the commission since the beginning of this administration reflect a positive progression. In 2015, the commission secured 103 convictions, 194 in 2016, 189 in 2017 and 312 in 2018. From January 2019 to date, the commission has secured over 406 convictions and recovered several assets worth billions of naira. “Despite this record, corruption remains a challenge in our country. I believe that the fight against corruption requires a multi-stakeholder approach. The private and public sectors are critical players in this regard and I am glad some state governors are taking steps to establish institutional mechanisms to fight corruption. ‘’However, institutional mechanisms alone will not eradicate corruption; we must have the passion and the will to make a difference. The business environment will never be sustainable if we remain sympathetic to the destructive act of corruption. “Our captains of industries should strengthen their corporate governance policies to reflect practical anti-corruption principles. Thus, radical reforms are urgently needed for the business climate to attract foreign direct investments,” he added. Magu expressed confidence that the EFCC will do its best to rid the nation of all forms of corruption, but however, stated that “as we move to the Next Level of the war against corruption, the arena will certainly get tougher because we are determined to rid this country of all sorts of corruption for the benefits of the current and future generations. “We are not oblivious of the fact that corruption fights back but these threats will only solidify our resolve to make the frontiers of anti-corruption war more formidable. We all have a moral burden on the fight against corruption, as such; we must take full responsibility and ownership to the anti-corruption war.”