Chukwuemeke Iwelunmo Managing Director, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Capt. Rabiu Hamisu Yadudu has reiterated the Authority’s commitment to keeping the airport environment clean at all times, saying they have not relented in measuring and monitoring the amount of emissions in the environment. Capt. Yadudu who was represented by the FAAN General Manager, Environment, Mrs Omere Janet  made the observation yesterday, during the commemoration of World Environment Day (WED) organised by FAAN in collaboration with Nigerian Environmental Society (NES). According to Yadudu, last year knowledge garnered 20018 WED has equipped the agency to be able to manage the issue of plastic solution at the airports. Yadudu said “Last year which is 2018, the theme of World Environment Day was “Beat Plastic Pollution”. In our own part in the airport, we have tried to stop the use of pure water and also to discourage water bottles and plastic containers. A lot of things have been put in place to reduce plastic usage at the airports. Within our environment, we are also encouraging paper bags instead of plastic and nylon littering in the whole environment. “Year ago, our present Managing Director who was the Director of Airports Operations has started that initiative of a cleaner environment. In Murtala Mohammed Airport (MMA), we are taking a study of carbon emissions and we found out that there are 4 levels in reducing carbon emissions. We are almost through with the first level which is mapping. We have also taken statistics and got data of emission that has to do with electricity, generating sets and all that. We are keying into that in MMA; we have also completed that of Abuja”, Yadudu added. Yadudu said that FAAN is complying with environmental requirements in line with the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), adding that the Authority’s environment the department is doing something to control carbon emissions into the environment. The FAAN boss also pointed out that recent environmental audit is done shows that the amount of emissions into the environment is in line with the limits recommended by both World Bank and Airports Council International (ACI). In his goodwill message the Director General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Capt Muktar Usman expressed appreciation to FAAN for organising the programme, urging them to continue with the laudable initiative. Capt Usman who was represented by General Manager, Air Transport Regulation, Rotimi Arogunjo said “I want to also say that NCAA is already in collaboration with FAAN on emissions reduction. It is a good thing that we are moving forward”, Usman said. In his message on World Environment Day, Secretary-General of United Nations, António Guterres said air pollution kills and causes long term health problems such as asthma and reduces children’s cognitive development. Guterres who was represented by the Director of United Nations Information Centre (UNIC) in Lagos, Ronald Kayanja said “today, we face an equally urgent crisis. It is time to act decisively. My message to government is clear; tax pollution; end fossil fuels subsidies; and stop building new coal plants. We need a green economy, not a grey economy.”