Patrick Okohue It was an emotional session yesterday on the floor of the Lagos State House of Assembly as the 8th session of the Assembly ended with a special parliamentary valedictory session with members recounting their experiences in the last four years. All members who spoke had bitter sweet stories to tell about their participation in the activities of the House commending each other and the leadership of the House for the way it piloted the ship. It was also revealed during the session that the 8th Assembly sat for a total of 216 times in its four years lifespan, passed 43 bills into law and over 200 resolutions, while it recorded death of one lawmaker. One of the lawmakers who defected from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon. Victor Akande confessed that it was the leadership of the Speaker, Hon. Mudashiru Obasa that encouraged him to switch camp to the APC. All the lawmakers who spoke appreciated Hon. Bayo Osinowo who represents Kosofe Constituency 1, but now the senator-elect for Lagos East senatorial district for his fatherly role, advice and stabilisation role in the House throughout his time in the Assembly, with Hon. Lanre Ogunyemi saying there is never a dull moment with him and Hon. Segun Olulade thanking Osinowo for always supporting his aspirations. Olulade who represents Epe 2 in the Assembly thanked the people of his constituency for giving him the opportunity to serve them in the Assembly. “I have been here for eight years, I use to come to the gallery to watch the proceedings in the House in 1999 and I felt that all that they did was to come and sit in the chambers. I contested in 2001 and I was asked to go and sit down. In 2011, I contested and people like Hon. Sikiru Oshinowo supported my aspirations then. “I thank my father, my wife; Engineer Mosunmola Olulade and my children. I appreciate the leaders of my party in Epe and the GAC members in the constituency. I appreciate the Speaker and the leadership of the House for giving me the opportunity to serve as the Chairman, House Committee on Health, I appreciate members of the Lagos State House of Assembly Correspondents Association (LAHACA) for supporting me and for making my job easy as the Chairman, House Committee on Information. “I have to learn and I am still learning. As I leave finally from this House, I want to be remembered for the laws, committees and all the assignments that we did together in the last eight years. I thank the Assembly for giving me the platform to show what I am made of. “The Speaker came and did what we never thought he could do. You have given prestige to the speakership of the House and we will like you to speak again,” Olulade who is signing out from the House for said.