…Says no Gorilla in Kano zoo, but missing N6.8m case of robbery Mathew Dadiya, Abuja Kano State Governor, Abdulahi Ganduje, has disclosed that discussions were ongoing to resolve the crisis between the Emir of Kano, Lamido Sanusi II, and the state government. The governor also said that the allegation that Gorilla swallowed N6.8 million from the Kano Zoo was not correct as there was no gorilla in the zoo. Speaking to State House correspondents after meeting behind closed doors with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, on Tuesday in Abuja, the governor explained that preliminary investigation has revealed that the missing money in the zoo was a case of armed robbery. He said that his meeting with the President was primarily to brief him on the security situation in the state and the importance of community policing. Fielding question on why he met with the President, he said: “I briefed Mr. President on the security situation in Kano State. You know what is current happening in other states surrounding Kano. But we are working in synergy with security in Kano State to ensure that the state remains peaceful despite what is happening in the neighbouring states. “Our emphasis is on community policing, community participation, especially those communities located around the forest areas of the state. So, we have built a synergy with the security institutions and our traditional rulers. The traditional rulers are always there and they also get a lot of security reports and they use it a lot to maintain peace in their domains. So, as of today, Kano is one of the most peaceful states.” On what would be his advice to states facing similar security crises, he said: “I think the best way to tackle these issues is through community participation so that the security agencies can get a lot of information on how to arrest the culprits. “Also, there is need for the community to avoid being recruited into the insurgency because, once the community is penetrated and the youths are recruited into the insurgency, it becomes complicated and difficult to solve.” When asked about the N6.8 million that was allegedly swallowed by Gorilla at the Kano zoo and what his government was doing, Ganduje said: “You know l already directed the anti- corruption agency in Kano to wade into the issue and they are still investigating. “But all l can say now is that preliminary reports indicate that there was armed robbery at the zoo, and not the issue of Gorilla. The issue of Gorilla is junk Journalism. This is because there is even no Gorilla in that zoo. We are told that there was an armed robbery incidence in which the entire Safe at the zoo was carted away.” Asked if he was surprised that the zoo officials kept that huge amount in the zoo, he said: “Well the outcome of the investigation will let us know what actually happened, but l am sure that there is something wrong anyway.” On his case with the Emir of Kano, Lamido Sanusi II, and the proposed reconciliation between him and the Emir, he said, “It (discussion) is still going on.” Also asked if it was true that he was insisting on removing the Emir, he simply responded, “Who told you that?” When told that that was the information before the public, he said, “Discussions are still going on.”