Samuel Luka, Bauchi In its efforts to rid Bauchi state of crime, the police have arrested a suspected armed robber, six cattle rustlers and several others in connection with various criminal activities in the state. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Kamal Datti, who paraded the suspects before newsmen said that on June 5, one Mohammed Najib, 29, of Makwalla Bauchi reported at the GRA Police Division complaining that a gang of armed robbers robbed him of his motorcycle valued at N190, 000. Datti said after discreet investigation, the command’s tactical team of ‘operation puff adder’ arrested the principal suspect, Salisu Ibrahim a.k.a. Lonja of Yelwa Bauchi. Exhibits recovered according to the police image –maker include, one cutlass suspected to have been used in the robbery. He said further ‎that his men also arrested five suspected cattle rustlers following a report by one Alhaji Yusuf of Dass on June 6. According to him, Alhaji Yusuf had reported to the police that he woke up and discovered that five of his cows have been stolen. The police spokesman explained that on receipt of the information, the police swung into action and arrested five suspects in possession of the stolen cows, two drivers with their van and three receivers of the stolen cows, adding that 24 cows and one van were recovered as exhibits from the suspects. “So far, four of the cows were identified and released to the complainant, Alhaji Yusuf, six cows were identified by one Mohammed Sani of Pali, Alkaleri Local Government Area and were equally released to him while the remaining 14 are in police custody,” Datti said. ‎Also, he added that “on June 12, one Yusuf Abdullahi of Wuro Magaji of Liman Katagum, Bauchi Local Government Area while working on his farm at Tashan Jarka Village, suspected one Manu Adamu of Marraba Liman Katagum and two others yet to be identified loading two cows suspected to be stolen into a Peugeot saloon car with registration number AE 924 GWA and chassis number VF35004G1106128612.” He explained that when Abdullahi accosted the suspected rustlers, two of the suspects ran away leaving Manu Adamu, who used attacked Abdullahi with a machete, leading to Abdullahi losing his leg and was rushed to the ATBU Teaching Hospital for medical treatment. Datti said that on receipt of the report, a police team attached to ‘Operation Puff Adder’ swung into action and arrested the said Manu Adamu while the two others are still at large. ‎He confirmed that all the cases are currently under investigation after which the suspects will be charged to court, adding further that during the week under review, the police arrested 46 notorious Sara-Suka thugs in raids carried out on their hideouts in Bauchi metropolis. Exhibits recovered from the thugs include, 11 cutlasses,‎ one knife, 31 wraps of dry leaves suspected to be Indian hemp and an assortment of 170 illicit drugs‎. He said that 31 of the suspected thugs have been charged to court while 13 are in the police custody undergoing investigation.