By Andrew Orolua with agency report, Abuja Despite Governor Abdullahi Ganduje and Emir Muhammadu Sanusi hands shake at the mosque during Eid prayers in Kano on Tuesday the frosty relationship between both leaders lingers on resulting in the scrapping of Emir’s Royal parade on Thursday. Governor Ganduje cancelled the annual city parade by the powerful traditional emir that uses to be horseback procession by the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, government officials said Thursday. They added the scraping of the event was arrived at after a security meeting held late on Wednesday. The procession in the northern town of Kano, a symbolic march celebrating the power of the monarch, held to mark the end of the Muslim month of Ramadan, was due to take place on Thursday. The traditional march usually sees the emir pay tribute to the governor while on horseback. It also includes a tour of the city with residents lining the streets, beating drums, playing the drums and firing muskets. But the governor’s spokesman, Abba Anwar, said the royal carnival was cancelled due to “security reasons’’. He said there had been warnings of a possible “breach of peace” during the event. Sanusi is one of the most important rulers in the mainly – Muslim north, and one of Nigeria’s leading Islamic figures. But last month, Ganduje limits Sanusi’ s powers by dividing the ancient Kano emirate into five , a move critics say was a bid to curb his influence . Supporters of Sanusi say the cancellation of the parade was another move to cut his power. Sanusi, a former central bank governor, became emir in 2014, inheriting an ancient title over an area the size of Israel with the population of Portugal. He will comply with the government’s decision, his office said. Instead, he would hold special prayers to commemorate the anniversary of his coronation. Ganduje, who won re -election for another four years in March, is said to view Sanusi as a critic opposed to his victory. The state anti- graft agency has recommended Sanusi’s suspension from office over alleged misappropriation of 3.4 billion ($ 9.5 million, 8.4 million euros) of palace funds given by the state government. The emir’s aides are also under investigation for alleged graft. Sanusi and his aides deny the accusations.