The Super Eagles striker, Ahmed Musa, and Super Falcons player, Francisca Ordega, both won the top prizes of King and Queen of the Pitch at the 6th award ceremony of the Nigeria Pitch Awards held Saturday night in Asaba. The award ceremony which held after the International Friendly between the Super Eagles of Nigeria and the Warriors of Zimbabwe was attended by many dignitaries including Seyi Akinwunmi, First Vice President of the Nigeria Football Federation. Speaking at the ceremony, Mr Akinwuni who represented the NFF President, commended the organisers of the awards. He reiterated the support of the Federation for the Pitch Awards. Shina Philips, President of the Nigeria Pitch Awards, expressed the appreciation of the organisers to the Federation and the Delta State Government. He said the organizers remained committed to giving Nigerians a transparent and credible award. “We will continue to do what is right because we believe our players need to be motivated by a transparent and credible reward system which will see them earn the respect of everyone in the football community,” Mr Philips said. In the Defender of the Year category, William Troost-Ekong of Udinese starved off competition from fellow teammates Leon Balogun and Kenneth Omeruo. In the Goalkeeper’s category, Anorthosis Famagusta goalkeeper, Francis Uzoho, beat last year’s winner, Ikechukwu Ezenwa, and Enyimba International goalie, Theophilus Afelokhai, to win the prize for the first time. Leicester City midfielder, Wilfred Ndidi, retained the Midfielder of the Year award and Odion Ighalo the Shanghai Shenhua forward was voted the Striker of the Year. The Sam Okwaraji Award for commitment to Nigeria Football has been one of the high points of previous Awards Ceremonies. Mr Akinwunmi last night joined Amaju Pinnick and Ifeanyi Ubah as winners of the prestigious Sam Okwaraji Award. Aiteo Group retained the Corporate Sponsor of Football award while Enugu Rangers Coach, Gbenga Ogunbote won the Coach of the Year award. Full List of winners Goalkeeper of the Year – Francis Odinaka Uzoho Defender of the Year – William Troost-Ekong Midfielder of the Year – Wilfred Ndidi Striker of the Year – Odion Ighalo MVP in NPFL – Junior Lokosa MVP in the NWFL – Rasheedat Ajibade Queen of the Pitch – Francisca Ordega King of the Pitch – Ahmed Musa Coach of the Year – Gbenga Ogunbote Club of the Year – Enugu Rangers National Team of the Year – Super Falcons Referee of the Year – Adebimpe Quadri Sam Okwaraji Awards – Seyi Akinwunmi State with the Best Grassroots Football Dev. Prog. – Lagos State Football Friendly Gov. of the Year – Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa Football Journalist of the Year (Print) – Johnny Edwards Football Journalist of the Year (Radio)- Tony Bekederemo Football Journalist of the Year (TV) – Mozez Praiz Football Journalist of the Year (Online)- Samuel Ahmadu Corporate Sponsor of Football – AITEO Group