Doosuur Iwambe, Abuja Following its bid  to curb  the menace of impersonation experienced in the conduct of its examinations, the National Examination Council (NECO) has procured 8,000 biometric machines and 20 Toyota Hilux Vans worth over N800 million. The Examination body also revealed that it has scrapped the use of scratch cards for the conduct of its Senior Secondary Certificate Examination. NECO Acting Registrar, Mr Abubakar Gana, who made this  disclosure during the commissioning of the equipment said that the biometric machines would assist in tackling the challenges of impersonation experienced in the conduct of its examinations. The agency also unveiled  20 Toyota Hilux Vans purchased to aid free movement of examination materials to various centres across the federation. He  said: “In the past people have to buy scratch cards in order to register for NECO examination. That is out. No more scratch cards. People (will) register online and they (will) be given a code and they will go ahead to register. “As they register, their biometrics are captured. Every school is on a particular biometric data capturing machine. Every data is captured on that small machine. “It is impossible for anybody to impersonate a candidate during our exams because the captured data is on our platform”. He added that  the equipment were procured to enhance operations in the areas of logistics and overall security of its examination. According to him, NECO had been making use of scratch cards to register over 51,000 candidates for each of its examinations in the past which had not enabled the agency to curb malpractices. He said that the 8,000 biometrics machine cost the council N500 million while the 20 Toyota Hilux gulped N327, 800,000. “Each of the vehicles cost N16, 390,000 while a unit of the biometric capture machine was bought at N62, 500,” he said. Gana also noted that about N2 billion was generated through the sale of scratch cards to candidates and as such, returned same to the Treasury Single Account of the Federal Government. “The last time the council bought vehicles was in 2013; we have also bought 8,000 units of biometric capture machines, which can verify the identity of candidates, as well as record attendance. “In the last year, we were able to save money. “The essence of the biometric is to deal with impersonation to help sanitise the system thereby having quality standards. On his part,  Mr Sonny Echono, Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Education, said the procurement was aimed at boosting the operations of the council. Echono, who was represented by Mr Abubakar Koko, Director, Human Resources in the ministry, advised the management of the council to ensure that the equipment were well maintained for the benefit of humanity. He, therefore, pledged the ministry’s continued support and collaboration in all of the council’s projects.