The National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) has agreed to restore the broadcast licence of DAAR Communications Plc following the mediation of five professional bodies to end the face-off between the regulatory agency and owners of Africa Independent Television (AIT) and Ray Power FM. Chairman and Editor-in-Chief, THISDAY/ARISE Group, Nduka Obaigbena, who is the President of the Nigerian Press Organisation (NPO), who announced this in a statement, said following the intervention, it was resolved that the NBC will immediately lift the suspension of the broadcast license of DAAR Communications Plc. The Nigerian Press Organisation comprises of the Newspapers Proprietors Association of Nigeria (NPAN), Broadcasting Organisations of Nigeria (BON), the Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) and the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ). Arising from a meeting hosted by patrons and elders of the NPO, including Mallam Ismaila Isa Funtua and Uncle Sam Amuka respectively in Abuja on Sunday night, it was resolved that DAAR Communications Plc will work out a realistic payment plan in respect of licence fees with the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) and ensure prompt payments in accordance with the new plan. It was further resolved that henceforth, DAAR Communications will appoint an ombudsman to ensure balance in its news coverage, especially political commentaries and that the media outfit will take full editorial responsibility for the use of content sourced from social media outlets. The meeting also prevailed on DAAR Communications to withdraw its legal action against the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) and that all parties take necessary steps to work together to build confidence in the public interest. According to the statement, the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) at the mediation meeting restated its commitments to the freedom of expression and the constitutionally guaranteed role of the media under Sections 22 and 39 of the constitution to hold governments accountable. However, the NBC also raised concerns about the non-adherence of the DAAR Communications group, owners of AIT/Ray Power to the Nigeria Broadcasting Code, despite repeated interactions and cited lack of editorial balance by DAAR Communications as well as the lingering issue of the non-payment of national network license fees. In response, the DAAR Communications team to the meeting defended its position, saying it gives its team freedom to make editorial commentary on issues of the day relying on Section 39 of the constitution which guarantees freedom of expression, freedom to hold opinions and to receive and impart ideas without interference. It further stated that it had made some payments on account to the NBC, but acknowledged that there were defaults in the payment plan they submitted to the NBC, explaining that the defaults were due to decisions jointly reached at BON meetings by all broadcasters to engage and renegotiate the cost of license fees with the NBC. Present at the mediation meeting were Ishaq Modibbo –Kawu, director general NBC; High Chief Raymond Dokpesi, chairman emeritus, DAAR Communications; Raymond Dokpesi (jnr), chairman of the board, DAAR Communications; Tony Akiotu, group managing director, DAAR Communications and Mrs. Tosin Dokpesi, managing director AIT. Others include Donatus Anopuo, company secretary DAAR Communications; Uncle Sam Amuka, publisher, VANGUARD Group; Mallam Ismaila Isa, patron NPAN and Nduka Obaigbena, president NPAN and president NPO.