Former Aviation Minister and a stalwart of the Peoples Democratic Party  (PDP)  Chief Femi Fani-Kayode has said that even if  the convener of #RevolutionNow protest, Mr. Omoyele Sowore is released later today or tomorrow the Federal Government has  made ‘their point: that they can do anything they want, to  anybody, for any reason and at anytime. …Even if @YeleSowore is released later today or tomorrow they have made their point: that they can do anything they want, to anybody, for any reason and at anytime. May God deliver us from these wicked souls and I urge every Nigerian to pray for Yele, Sambo Dasuki and others. The Federal High Court in Lagos on Tuesday ordered the immediate release of the convener of #RevolutionNow protest, Mr. Omoyele Sowore, from the custody of the Department of State Service, DSS.Justice Taiwo Taiwo said the activist should be released to his lawyer, Mr. Femi Falana (SAN), who is to produce him for arraignment whenever he is required. Falana had told the court that since the detention order has expired and application for renewal has been withdrawn, the court should make a consequential order and release Sowore.“If the court wants him and i will produce him (Sowore).” Falana said that the DSS was illegal and not the creation of National Security Act. That it was SSS that was written in that section but the prosecution argued that it was the same but just a semantics. Falana referred the court to the case of MKO Abiola 1995 vs FG where the appellant was charged with treasonable felony and the court granted him bail even on self recognition. Falana said he was also charged with treasonable felony and Justice Taiwo Taiwo was the one who defended him and he was granted bail. BBNaija2019: Mercy finally speaks on Tacha’s body odour He also said ‘What amazes me is the utter gullibility of some of our people. Why would you be surprised that @YeleSowore is still in detention? Has @MBuhari ever obeyed court orders? They did it to those of us in the mainstream opposition over the last 4 years and you applauded them… Now they are doing it to others and u are lamenting and expressing surprise and disappointment. You never thought it would affect u but now it has. Well this is just the beginning. You must live with the new reality which is that we are living in a vicious dictatorship which will not spare anyone it feels threatened by. I and a number of others warned that this would happen in 2015 if Buhari came to power and you laughed us to scorn and insulted us. You fought for @MBuhari, you rejected @GEJonathan and you put him in power . Thankfully it appears that you are not laughing anymore but now you must live with the consequences of your actions. Now you must live with the monster and tyrant you assisted in putting on the throne and the mess you helped to create . Even if @YeleSowore is released later today or tomorrow they have made their point: that they can do anything they want, to anybody, for any reason and at anytime. May God deliver us from these wicked souls and I urge every Nigerian to pray for Yele, Sambo Dasuki and others. 