…As DFID commits £41m to tackle acute malnutrition in 2 states The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), has said that  Nigeria needs N5 billion to urgently purchase Ready to Use Therapeutic Food (RUTF), in order  to halt emergence of new cases of Severe Acute Malnutrition (SAM), estimated to affect 258, 950 children living in the North East by the year 2020. Currently, about 2.5 million children under the age of five are suffering from SAM in Nigeria. Out of this figure, 440, 000 boys and girls are drawn from the three states of Borno, Adamawa and Yobe. UNICEF nutrition specialist, Aminu Usman who made this known at a media dialogue on Integrated and Timely Response to Nutrition Related Humanitarian Needs on Thursday in Maiduguri, Borno State, said the money was much needed to avert a further exacerbation of the malnutrition crisis which was fuelled by  insecurity in the region. While noting that a lot has been achieved in addressing the challenges of malnutrition in the region, he raised concerns of new cases of severe acute malnourished children due to influx of new arrivals of internally displaced persons, lack of access to hard to reach areas  and late presentation of malnourished children whose parents were ashamed to seek treatment. Usman however disclosed that the Department for International Development (DFID), has committed a total of £41 to address what he termed as the “deteriorating nutrition related crisis” in Borno and Yobe states from April 2019 to March 2020. He explained that out of the sum, £36 million targets 922,249 children in nine local government areas of Borno State, while £5 million targets 585, 565 children in three local government areas in Yobe State. Usman who noted that the funding from DFID was inadequate to arrest the situation, said there was a funding gap of  N4.4 billion. He called on government at all levels to avert a further exacerbation of an already poor nutrition situation in the North East. “Nutrition sector estimates there will be 258,950 boys and girls suffering from Secure Acute Malnutrition (SAM), in 2020 in Adamawa, Borno and Yobe states. N5 billion is needed to necessitate procurement of 258,950 cartoons of Ready to Use Therapeutic Food (RUTF) for SAM. “Funding has been secured for 29, 314 cartoons of RUTF, there is a funding gap of N4.4 billion for procurement of 229, 636 cartoons. “The affected community coping mechanisms is still low and any shock will result in further deterioration of nutrition status and so, it is important to have a robust contingency plan”, he said. On her part, UNICEF nutrition specialist, Abigael Nyukuri, said the malnutrition crisis was worst in Rann, South Yobe, Magumeri, Jere and Konduga local government Areas, due to poor food security, sub optimal water, hygiene and sanitation practice as a result of heightened insecurity in the listed areas. “Malnutrition is an emergency situation in Nigeria,  we need an integrated approach from all sectors to tackle this emergency. “Malnutrition has led to almost 50 percent death in children, hgh rate mortality, irreversible brain damage and compromised intellectual capacity in adulthood as well as over 16 percent loss of the nation’s gross domestic product”, she said. Earlier, the minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, said a large number of children living in conflicts, northern rural hard to reach communities and communities under emergencies were deprived of basic social amenities. The minister who was represented by the head, Child Rights Information Bureau (CRIB) of the ministry, Mr. Olumide Osanyinpeju, stressed on the need for government at all levels to invest in child malnutrition, increase awareness on the consequences of malnutrition, resource allocation for food and nutrition security. “Nigeria’s future depends on producing children who are well prepared to take their place in tomorrow’s society. Most unfortunately a large number of these children are at risk of deprivations of basic social amenities, of which nutrition is inclusive; and especially in the Northern rural and hard-to-reach communities. “This, therefore, calls to mind the need for us to specifically address malnutrition in children because it directly impacts on their survival and development. “It is imperative to combat Malnutrition, because it can cause death in young children, particularly those under five years of age. There should be concerted effort to fight malnutrition out in totality to ensure the attainment of desired results,” he said.