Commercial sex workers in Rivers State, have mapped out
measures to defend themselves against incessant killings of young girls by
serial killers in order not to disrupt their business activities. Some sex workers who spoke to The Punch, explained that
since they were not ready to leave their trade, they were also not prepared to
be victims of serial killers, hence, decided to get pepper spray to ward off
attackers. According to them, the killers have been on the prowl in the
state since July this year. Recall that the police last week arrested one Mr. Gracious
David West, a suspect behind the serial killing of young women in some hotels
in the state. Meanwhile, the Rivers State Police Command has continued the
search for more serial killers of young women in hotels. The Punch who spoke to some of the sex workers on Saturday, in
Casablanca, a popular place in the Port Harcourt GRA, gathered that some of
them have devised several means to protect and defend themselves. Speaking to Stacy, a sex worker in the club, said, “I have
been in this trade for a long time and when we began to hear about the killings
of girls in hotels, some of us agreed to be moving with pepper spray. We will
apply the pepper spray on them if they come to kill us.” Another named Sabina, said she was not moved by the news of
the serial killers, adding that she had plans to begin to mix pepper with water
and put in a small bottle. “With the small bottle, I can target the eyes of the bad
man. I cannot allow anybody to use me for rituals. With pepper in his eyes, I
will shout and people will come to see what is happening,” she said. Also, another respondent by name Miracle, disclosed that
that she has decided not to follow any man, who offers to pay more than the
normal, adding that men, who were into ritual killings, always promise to pay
higher for a night. “The normal charge for a night is between N6,000 and N7,000.
But if someone comes to me and says ‘I will give you N30,000 for a night’,
definitely, I will not follow the person. Which man will pay a sex worker
N30,000 for a night if he is not planning evil?” she lamented. However, another call girl, who said she returned from Ghana
last year, said though she had never gone to hotels with her patrons, the news
about the killings of young women in hotel rooms had reinforced her belief that
it was senseless following a man to his hotel room for sex till the following
morning. “I don’t follow men
to hotels. Again, with this news about the killings of women in hotels, I will
never follow any man to a hotel, no matter the amount he is willing to pay,”
she added.