The 2019/2020 English Premier League season resumes after a break to allow players take part in international matches. Match Day 5 holds this weekend and will be beamed live to Nigerians courtesy of Nigeria’s digital transformation leader, Globacom, which is picking up the tab for the airing of EPL matches. Liverpool currently leads the table with 12 points, having won its first four matches. The club will be playing host to Steve Bruce’s Newcastle in Anfield. In other matches, Southampton will square up with Sheffield United at the Bramall Lane Stadium in South Yorkshire, while Nuno Espirito Santos will host Chelsea at Molineux. At Old Trafford, Manchester United, currently occupying the 8th position on the table, will welcome Leicester City which has so far picked 8 points, with two wins and two draws, in a tactical sideline battle between Ole Gunnar Solskjaer and Brendan Rodgers. Also at Vitality Stadium, Bournemouth will host Alex Iwobi‘s Everton. In other fixtures, Brighton will play against Burnley at American Express Community Stadium; Watford vs Arsenal; Aston Villa vs West Ham; Norwich vs Manchester City and Crystal Palace vs Tottenham at Tottenham Stadium in London. Apart from Liverpool which occupies the top slot with 12 points, there are also Manchester City at number two with 10 points, Leicester City (8 points) and Crystal Palace (7 points). In his comments, a football enthusiast, Ibrahim Musa, predicts that Liverpool and Manchester City will still occupy the first two positions all the way to the end of the season, adding that the possibility of upset is very remote judging by what has been seen so far. Musa commended Globacom for sponsoring the live broadcast of the matches, adding that this had helped tremendously in enriching the knowledge of football fans in the country, enabling them to follow their darling clubs on a weekly basis, as well as providing a platform for young ones to socialize at viewing centres. Globacom has sponsored the broadcast of English Premier League live matches on Supersports in the 2013/2014 League season and has sustained it till date.