Oluwatosin Omosowon Google Photos app is overflowing with helpful features, which can
upload new photos, view, edit, save and create new videos. One can also download
everything, which means, cloud-based backup can itself be easily backed up onto
the computer or external hard drive. However, despite these amazing helpful features, there are other
handy things that have not been placed into cognizance, but can be very useful. Hence with the google photos app, you can do the following 10
things: Scan your old photos
with PhotoScan: Do you have photos in an
album or a frame that you want to make digital? One of the easiest ways to add
real photographs to your Google Photos library is to use Google Photoscan for
Android and iOS. What you have to do is to follow the on-screen instructions to
capture your pictures and then organize and access them with Photos. It’s an
easy way to bring vintage photographs into the modern age. Move photos to archive: Clear out the clutter by moving unneeded photos to your archive.
Just select the three dots to access the photo-options menu and choose
“Archive.” Occasionally, Google will automatically suggest photos to move,
which you can review and archive as you like. Un-delete photos: If you trashed a photo and now want it back, just open up the main
Google Photos menu, select trash, and then choose the image or images you want
to restore. Photos remain in the trash for 60 days before being permanently
deleted. Make an animation: You can make animations
with the google photo apps. What you have to do is select “Assistant” in
Photos, choose “Animation,” and then select anywhere from two to 50 photos and
let Google create a fun animation from the images. This is especially
entertaining if you have a sequence of action shots that go together. Chromecast your photos
to a TV: Chromecast is a device that you plug into your TV’s HDMI port, powered
by a USB cable. If you have a Chromecast hooked up to your TV, you can open up
your Google Photos app on your phone, click on the “cast” icon in the corner,
and share your favorite snaps on the big screen for everyone to enjoy. Create a slideshow
movie: For movie lovers who want to make movies, you can make that happen
with the google photos app slideshow movie. To create movie, look under the
“Assistant” feature in your Google Photos app for the “Movie” option. This will
enable you select up to 50 photos or videos to put into a slideshow video. You
can also customize your creation by choosing different filters and selecting a
soundtrack. Google offers a selection of fun tracks ranging from dogs barking
“Blue Danube” to upbeat jazzy tunes. You can share your movie creation with
friends or publish it to social media or YouTube. Link up with Google Drive: Sync your Google Drive with Google Photos by heading to your settings
and turning on the Google Drive option. Now you can see and edit photos and
videos from Drive right in Photos. Next, head to Google Drive, open the
settings and check the option to “Create a Google Photos folder” to access your
images on My Drive. Search by emoji: Pop open your Google Photos app, go to the search bar, and,
instead of typing in text, choose an emoji for your search term. A cat emoji
will return feline photos, a happy-face emoji will get pictures of smiling
people, and a birthday cake will give you birthday-related images. Build a photo book: As much fun as it is to look at photos on a screen, sometimes you
just want to hold a real book in your hand. Use the “Photo books” feature to
build and order physical books stocked with your lovely images. Hide your location from shared photos: Google collects location information for photos, which can be very
helpful for organizing and searching your archive, but it might not be
something you want to reveal when you share images with others. Go to Settings,
open your Sharing preferences and select “Remove geolocation in items shared by
link” to hide that information for any images or videos you share via a link.