No fewer than 23 persons have so far received brand new saloon cars from the Nigeria’s leading cement manufacturer, Dangote Cement Plc, in the ongoing Bag of Goodies National Consumer scratch and win promotion in appreciation of their loyalty to the cement brand. Chairman of the company, Aliko Dangote said in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State that 20 more cars are still up for grab even as the foremost cement producer disclosed that some 500 customers have gone home with tricycles, motorcycles, refrigerators and plasma television sets in the last two months. Senior Advocate of Nigeria and member of the company’s Board of directors, Mrs. Dorothy Ufot, who represented Alhaji Aliko Dangote at a presentation of prizes to winners in Uyo at the weekend, stated that the promo had turned around the lives of many Nigerians through the economic empowerment prizes they won. Dangote insisted that his companies would continue to spread prosperity and create jobs for the teeming population, saying the private sector has a lot to do to augment government efforts at alleviating poverty and improving the lives of the people. In Uyo, a block maker, Aniekut Umoh collected keys to a brand new car, while winners of refrigerator, Nsikak Micheal Ottong, Aniekan Sunday and Efefiong Umoren collected their prizes. Also in Owerri, Onyeka Okpara received keys to a new car, Uchechi Obasi, a new motor bike while Nworie Charles and Okorie Promise emerged as winners of refrigerators. Mrs. Ufot said that the promo is an indication that Dangote Cement national consumer promo (NCP) is keeping faith with its customers who are keeping the company in business. She lauded consumers in Akwa Ibom State for choosing Dangote Cement, adding that there are still many cars to be won. Hear her: “We are giving out 43 cars nation-wide and other prizes. We are here today to say thank you for your contribution to the growth of our company, Dangote Cement Plc. We value our customers which is why we have brought this promo to Uyo. We value everybody in our value chain system (distributors, wholesalers and retailers) and this our own way of giving back to our consumers. “On behalf Aliko Dangote, the board of Dangote Cement, the management staff and the entire of the company, we are here to say a big thank you to you to all. The national promo is for real. It is not a scam, it is not a gimmick and not a 419 thing. “It is for real and we have made promises which we have been keeping across the country.  We have several prizes and gifts to give out, starting from the star prize of the car, we have tricycles, TV sets, Refrigerator and other smaller gifts. Earlier, the company in Ilorin presented 13 refrigerators, 11 plasma TV sets, A tricycle and motorcycle to winners in the promotion in the region. Speaking at the event in Owerri, Mrs. Ufot said: “Bag of goodies promo is to reward loyal customers. Without customers, no product will sell. You have kept faith with us despite the fierce competition from other brands. Keep buying Dangote, keep scratching, keep winning.” She added, “Dangote Cement is reliable, we are trustworthy. If you use our product you can go home and sleep. We really appreciate you because without our customers, consumers, retailers, distributors there will be no Dangote Cement.” In her remarks, Marketing Director, Funmi Sanni stated that aside the quality product the company offers, it realises the need to give competitive pricing to maintain the loyalty of growing customers so that they are lured into buying any other brand of cement. Mrs. Sanni further said: “Those in the value chain are the reason the company is bagging a minimum of 800, 000 bags daily. You are very important to us and the reason for this promo tagged bag of goodies targeted at our consumers so that we can say thank in a special way. In every bag there is a scratch card and this scratch card has won somebody a car today and other winners as well.” Speaking with newsmen, the star prize winner in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, Umoh thanked the management of Dangote Cement for empowering him, adding that the promo is real. In the same vein, the star prize winner in Owerri, Okpara stated that Dangote Cement has made his dreams to come true.