Pius Asaba, board member, Nigeria Amputee Football Federation (NAAF), on Saturday appealed to the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development to release funds ahead of the Africa Nations for Amputee Football (CANAF). Asaba told News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the federation had represented its proposal to the ministry for the release of funds. He said that representation of the proposal was to remind the ministry on the need to release the funds needed for the federation to participate in the intercontinental football tournament. NAN reports that the Nigeria Amputee national football team would take part in the 5th edition of CANAF holding from Oct. 1 to Oct. 14 in Luanda, Angola. “As the competition is coming very close, we are once again appealing to the Ministry of Sports to provide the needed support in our proposal letter, sent long ago. “The invitation and budget letters to the Ministry was recently called up and represented as a reminder so that adequate attention and approval will be issued on it. “We are already making preparations for the trip, but really need the authority’s support to process and secure necessary travelling documents such as visa fee and flight tickets,” Asaba said. He said that 11 footballers have been selected out of the 22 invited to national camp, these 11 would form the national team and represent the country in the competition. Asaba listed the selected names to include:  Setonji Sunday, Sarafadeen Olalekan, Ibawuchi Emmanuel, Blessing Otutu, Grema Mohammed, Ugwu Augustine, Michael Chimobi, Ndako Ibrahim, Ezeji-Chibuike Kennedy, Kingsley Kelvin and Ogidan Olayemi. He name the coaching crew to consists of Nwewe Victor, NAFF national coach, Gbenga Dosumu, assistant and Mohammed Danjuma. Asaba said that the footballers and coaching crew were presently camped in the National Institute for Sports, National Stadium, Lagos, and training in the Legacy Pitch of the Stadium. He said that the federation have proposed Sept. 30 as departure date for the contingent, adding that the team needed to get acclamatised to the weather and psychologically balanced for the matches. “The footballers need to be in Angola before their matches, so that they can settle down, although, we have not gotten the fixtures but other arrangements are still on,” he said. Meanwhile, Coach Victor told NAN that the selection carried out by the coaching crew were based on competence, technical ability, skills, discipline and adherence to camp rules. He said that the selected footballers performed credibly well in the week long training in the national camp which gave them edge over their fellows. “We were given a task to identify competent footballers with technical abilities, discipline and skills to deliver in the Nation’s Cup which we have just done without any sentiment,” he said. Victor said that, henceforth, training would be more intensive as footballers must be made to hold grip of their wings while they bring to bear team spirit in their matches. NAN reports that the 5th edition of CANAF organised by Federation of Africa Amputee Football (FAAF) would serve as continental qualifier for the 2020 Amputee World Cup. (NAN)