Nneka Nwogwugwu The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomole, said his party is ready to face the main opposition party, PDP, and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, and will be defeated again even at the supreme court or world court. According to the Punch newspaper, Oshiomole, stated this on Thursday, after his meeting with President Buhari, in the company of the party’s National Women Leader, Salamatu Umar-Eluma, and others who went to congratulate the president over his victory at tribunal. Oshiomole said, “We as a party we are confident that if it is within the Nigerian law for the PDP to go even to the World Court, we will meet them there.” “The Supreme Court of Nigeria is not that of the PDP or the APC. The Supreme Court is governed by law and it’s to interpret the evidence before the Court of Appeal. They are not at liberty to introduce new issues, neither can they bring in new witnesses.’’ “So, if it is what I heard yesterday, which I believe you also heard; thanks to the media, most Nigerians were detained for eight hours listening to arguments of the Judges one after the other. Even though we thought it was getting longer and longer, we realised that they tried to deal with the issues raised, even the ones you and I as laymen will consider inconsequential. They dealt with each of them, trashed them and arrived at a conclusion.’’ “So, I don’t want to sound arrogant. Yesterday (Wednesday), I said that I hoped this whole contest is about Nigeria, who actually won the election and both parties were committed to building Nigeria. It’s not about who should be given the key.’’ “Now, this has been resolved and it is time to queue behind the winner and move on. Our winner is the best example that losing an election is not tantamount to the end of your political life. He lost three previous elections, and today he is the President.’’ “President Buhari is now ready to meet defeated Atiku Abubakar at the Supreme Court. The APC is ready to meet the PDP at the Supreme Court. Adams Oshiomhole is ready to meet my brother, (Uche) Secondus, at the Supreme Court; and he will take second and I will take first, Isha Allah,” Mr Oshiomhole said. Also, President Buhari while receiving the women leaders, said his reason for trusting the women with the country’s treasury in his two terms in office was strategic. Mrs Umar-Eluma, while congratulating the President for his victory, thanked Mr Buhari for appointing women as ministers.