…Says Nigeria will correct its way from tyranny to democracy The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the February 23, 2019 presidential election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has appreciated Nigerians in general, party leaders and members and numerous admirers for unflinching support to him during and after the election. He was particularly grateful to all for standing by him while the legal attempt to  to regain his mandate at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal lasted. In a message of gratitude to Nigerians for their  support on what he called  necessary journey, he personally thanked all for  the solidarity he  enjoyed from all walks of life and every strata of society, right from July 21, 2018, when he declared his aspiration to contest the 2019 Presidential election, to Wednesday September 11, 2019, when the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal rendered its verdict. Atiku said he was satisfied that he played his part as a patriot to seek the highest office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to put the ailing country back on track and make Nigeria work again but his efforts were curtailed by forces that want the country to be in perpetual bondage. In the statement sent from his Dubai abode on Fiday, the former vice president said “nothing good comes easy, and hard as the task to rid Nigeria from the forces of fascism, and be an instrument for the full restoration of the rule of law and democracy in Nigeria is, your support makes the struggle worthwhile. “I owe so much to this great land of Nigeria that took me from the streets of Jada, where I sold firewood, to the heights I have attained, by God’s benevolence, in the civil service, in corporate Nigeria, and in public service. ” If I do not play my part in making it possible for other orphaned children, indigent youths and the less privileged, to replicate and even surpass my path to significance, I would have failed my Maker. If I do not ensure that the ladder I climbed remains accessible to those at the bottom, middle and top tiers of society, I would not have fulfilled my purpose. “And only by ensuring that democracy is not just done, but seen to be done, can Nigeria and Nigerians have a sense that this our dear land is indeed a land where unity, faith, peace and progress reside. “It is for this, and other patriotic reasons, that I am pursuing this judicial route: To ensure that the votes of Nigerians count and are counted. “Yes, those who do not want this as Nigeria’s reality, will use every trick in the book to undermine, discourage, misinform and mislead, but with God’s help and the support of Nigerians, we will ensure that Nigeria makes a course correction away from tyranny and towards democracy. “We must return to being Africa’s bastion of democracy, where the rights to Freedom of Speech and Freedom after the Speech, are guaranteed. We must stand together to pursue this just cause all the way, so that our judiciary are not afraid to do their jobs and have to be wary of blackmail, intimidation, and victimisation. Appreciating his supporters, he said, ” I note the immense outpouring of goodwill from ordinary Nigerians in every nook and cranny of Nigeria and from all regions, religions and relationships. Once again I thank you all for your support. ” I also thank the governors elected on the platform of my party, the Peoples Democratic Party, as well as the National Executive Committee, for their unanimous and unambiguous support for the judicial phase of this struggle, especially after it was announced that we would go on to appeal.” Atiku who  urged all Nigerians to continue their support for this recourse to constitutional order via the courts, however, said “even if there is little or nothing you can do to ensure that justice is done in Nigeria, just believe that it will happen. Let us never underestimate the effect of our belief in Nigeria”. Finally, he said to all concerned, “that we will all die and give account of our lives to our creator”