Godwin Anyebe Lagos State chapter of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) has announced its fourth Lagos Digital Public Relations Summit. This year’s summit themed, “Upping Your Versatility in Digital Communication” and will hold on Wednesday 16th and Thursday 17th October in Lagos. The summit is a two-day experiential gathering focused on achieving collective intelligence to equip and capacitate communicators in corporate and public affairs with high-level digital public relations strategies on how they can do their jobs better and lift their social media campaign results. This year’s edition is in partnership with multinational technology companies specialising in Internet-related services, social media and social networking services and products and leading digital marketing communications firms. The Summit is open to Generation X and Millennials managing communications for government, corporate, media and non-governmental organizations to equip and expose them to contemporary techniques and glean new insights into the fast-growing digital media space for modern-day strategic communication practice. In a statement made available to newsmen recently in Lagos, the Chairman of the Lagos NIPR, Olusegun McMedal, said: “Internet penetration is changing the way we work, socialise, create and share information and organise the flow of people, ideas and things around the globe. The ability to connect with many more people and things and engage them more deeply will continue to expand exponentially. However, the opportunities in the medium require new skill-sets, especially for communicators to run successful digital communications campaigns. It is important that practitioners are better equipped to operate in the rapidly growing algorithmic media ecosystem.” The Summit will feature a formal opening ceremony. There will be lectures, discussions, simulation exercises, case study analyses and breakout sessions led by experienced Faculties and practitioners from leading multinational technology, social media and social networking services companies and leading digital marketing communications firms to equip participants with the know-how to drive positive impact in their organizations. Participants will earn a Certificate of Participation and the honorary Lagos Digital PR Ambassadorship.