Chairman of Dangote Cement Plc, Aliko Dangote has disclosed that the on-going Bag of Goodies National Consumer Promo was fashioned after the business model of the Pan-African conglomerate which is to economically empower the people and thereby spreading prosperity to the largest number of people. He stated that in all, not less than 20 million consumers will win one prize or the other and that translates to about 25 per cent of Nigeria’s population and at the end of the promo, the company would have succeeded in spreading prosperity and many families would have had a new means of livelihood through the prizes being won. The business mogul stated these in Abeokuta while presenting various prizes won by some 31 consumers of Dangote Cement in Ogun state, who car, refrigerators, Television sets and tricycle. Dangote, who spoke through Dangote Cement Regional Sales Director, Mr Tunde Mabogunje, said the promo was borne out of the company desire to economically empower all its customers along the value chain and that the current promo was targeted at empowering its consumers. “Because it is meant to empower them that is why we carefully choose the prizes. We have cars, tricycles, motorcycles, refrigerators and television sets, all these have economic value.”, Mabogunje said. The Sales Director explained that the company also has put in place other empowerment schemes for its distributors, retailers and other customers. In his own remark, Head, Dangote Cement Route to Market, Kayode Akin-Bamidele said about 20 cars have been won so far remaining 23 with many tricycles, motorcycles, Television sets and refrigerators to go before the promo ends at the end of September. He thanked the consumers for their patronage of Dangote Cement saying the promo was the biggest ever in the country by any company and that such humongous promo value could only be done by Dangote Cement. Apart from winning prizes when buying Dangote Cement, Mr Akin-Bamidele said the consumer would also be buying the best quality cement at the most affordable prices while urging the consumers to spread the news to others. According to him, all the promo runs by Dangote Cement is meant to give back to the loyal customers and would continue to do so because “without you, there can’t be us.” National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC) whose coordinator witnessed the Abeokuta ceremony commended the transparent process of rewarding the winners describing the promo as unprecedented. Coordinator of the NLRC, Fasuhanmi Omotayo said his commission has so far been impressed with the promo and lauded the management of Dangote Cement for the gesture of rewarding its cement consumers in such a manner.