A Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) based in Plateau, Know-Xtra, has organised a literary festival to promote reading culture among students in the state. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the festival had as its theme ‘Building Bridges of Peace and Progress through Literature, Art and Culture’. Speaking at the closing of the festival on Saturday in Jos, an executive of the NGO, Miss Klevar Ocholi, said that the objective of the event was to celebrate literacy in the society and promote it, using indigenous languages. She said that the NGO organised competitions in spoken words, spelling and quiz for schools in Jos North and Jos South Local Government areas to build their literacy skills and encourage literary activities in the schools. “We organised competitions, with 25 schools participating. In line with our theme, our aim is to promote the adoption of sensible communication instead of fighting with tools such as cutlasses or guns to address our problems. “This is to find solutions to societal problems and liberate ourselves through education,” she said. In his remarks, Prof Ishaya Pam of University of Jos, said that teachers were responsible for the dissemination of information and knowledge which encompassed teaching students self-learning to search for knowledge themselves. “Teachers are very critical in education and they can only discharge their duties through quality training which is possible only when we have the right educational structure as well as teaching methods and materials in place,” he said. He said that libraries could be made attractive by ensuring that they addressed societal needs, adding that adopting electronic and digital systems could make it youth-friendly. “It is important to make our libraries youth-friendly by making space for them to interact, play their games and still learn from books that have not been digitalised because some books are easily read in their normal format,” he said. NAN reports that the Plateau chapter of the International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) and Alliance Francaise were presented awards for their literary contributions to humanity. Responding on behalf of the awardees, Mrs Mary Izam, the Chairperson of FIDA Plateau chapter, said that she was humbled that the humanitarian services of FIDA were being recognised by the organisation. She said that the association had been instrumental to educating women on their fundamental human rights, which involved their right to life which, she said, was sometimes deprived through traditional harmful practices. Izam said that FIDA also facilitated the abridged version of the Gender Equal Opportunity Law and its translation into indigenous languages to enable women read and understand their basic rights. NAN reports that other activities at the three-day event included book fair and exhibitions as well as presentation of poetry and prose. (NAN)