Isaac Job – Uyo The Akwa Ibom state government has announced the ban on the use of siren by unauthorised persons in the state and has directed law-enforcement agents to arrest defaulters. The government took the decision during an emergency state executive council meeting held at Government House, Uyo, Akwa Ibom state. Commissioner for Information, Charles Udoh, who stated this while briefing Government House correspondents after the meeting presided over by the state Governor, Udom Emmanuel, said the move is to bring sanity and forestall wrong usage of sirens. He said the law authorises only the state governor, his deputy, speaker of the state House of Assembly and fire fighting trucks and ambulances on emergencies to use sirens. “The council frowns at the indiscriminate use of sirens by people in the state. The law prescribes that only those category of people are permitted to use siren; these persons are the governor, deputy governor and the speaker, and fire fighting trucks on emergency assignments. “Every other person who uses siren in the state is doing so illegally and the council has also mandated the security agencies to apprehend anyone who violates this order and bring them to book. “The idea is that we need to have a sane society; we need to have a society where there is law and order; we need to have a society where status is respected,” Udoh said. He explained that the council also deliberated on the forthcoming 32nd anniversary of the state and decided that it would be low key, but would feature commissioning of the digital power sub-station at Ekim, Kings Flour Mill, plywood factory, renovated Immanuel Hospital at Eket, General Hospital at Awa -Onna Local Government Area and some dualized road projects by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo Udoh said “Akwa Ibom state will be 32. To mark that anniversary, government has clearly said that this year’s celebration will be a low-key event, where there will not be too much of fanfare since it is not a landmark event as we had in 2017 during the 30th anniversary of the state. Here emphasis will be mostly on project commissioning.”