FG to arraign Sowore on Monday The Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) has adopted Governor Yahaya Bello as its candidate for the Nov. 16 governorship election in the state. The National Organising Secretary of the group, Aliyu Saleh, who made the declaration at a news conference in Lokoja on Saturday, directed Fulanis in the state to immediately embark on Ruga-to-Ruga campaign for the re-election of Mr Bello. Mr Saleh said the group decided to support the governor for providing a secure environment for Fulanis to operate in the state. “We are also supporting the governor for approving free Contagious Bovine Pleuro Pneumonia (CBPP) vaccination for over 23,000 cows belonging to our members in the state,” he said. BBNaija : Elozonam, Ike evicted The group also commended Bello for putting in place measures which had led to a reduction in clashes between farmers and herders in the state. It also stated that the governor had given its members a sense of belonging by appointing one of them into his cabinet and by making their leaders members of the traditional councils at the state and local government levels. The national organising secretary, who was flanked by the state Chairman of MACBAN, Umaru Jaido, also said they decided to endorse Mr Bello’s candidature because of their love for President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC). The State Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Abubakar Ohere, who received the endorsement document on behalf of the governor, thanked the group for adopting Bello as its candidate. Mr Ohere described Gov. Bello as a leader with a large heart, saying that his priority had always been to provide security for all, irrespective of tribe and religion. He said that Mr Bello decided to include Fulani leaders in the traditional council to reduce communal clash, especially between farmers and herders. While thanking the association for the endorsement, the commissioner said the gesture would propel Mr Bello to do more for the people of the state. “Despite our challenges, we still have hope that in our lifetime, people will be rushing to Nigeria like Dubai and America. “The truth is that there is hope for Nigeria and this reminds me of Martin Luther King Jr. who had a dream for America. For Nigeria, it is possible as well and it is going to happen in our lifetime,” the Governor said. He added that it was important for the people to be reminded of the powerful desire for peace, unity and the need to sustain and deepen democracy. He also said Nigeria had so much to be thankful and grateful for irrespective of the differences, adding that the country was already on the right path to greatness. According to him, “As we celebrate the 59th Anniversary of our independence, we know we are on the right path. Although we have our differences, they count far less than the values, virtues and common aspirations that unite us as a nation. We have so much we should be grateful for, and in which we should rightly take pride. “My message to Lagosians and Nigerians is captured in the book of Galatians chapter 5, verse 13 which says ‘Brethren, ye have been called unto liberty; only use not liberty for an occasion of flesh, but by love serve one another’, I implore  everyone to cohabit in love, be tolerant to your neighbors and let the peace of God rule in our state and nation.” The Governor assured Lagosians that his administration was on course and fully charged to deliver on all the promises made to the people aimed at making the state greater, and one which works for all in which there would be equal opportunity for every resident to pursue legitimate aspirations. Besides, Governor Sanwo-Olu eulogized the labour and sacrifice of Nigeria’s heroes past to free the country from colonial rule, adding: “More than ever before, we owe it a duty to the younger generation to come together as brothers and sisters, to collectively develop lasting solution to our challenges, so that the labour and sacrifice of our founding fathers will not be in vain. “As we journey towards the 60 years of independence celebration next year, I enjoin all Lagosians to keep working and praying for the continued unity and peace of Nigeria and the development of Lagos State in particular,” the Governor said. In his sermon, Pastor John Ekundayo of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Hossanah Parish, Lagos Province 27, said Nigeria was in dire need of followers who would rise up and challenge the old order. Speaking on the theme: “Restorer Of City To Dwell,” Ekundayo who took his text from Isaiah 58: 2 and Joel 2: 25 to 27, urged the people not to be discouraged but have hope for a better Nigeria, just as he prayed that God would raise restorers who would in turn transform the country. The service was attended by dignitaries from all walks of life including senior Lagos State Government officials, members of the Nigerian Armed Forces, Nigeria Police, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), traditional chiefs, community leaders, politicians, among others. Prayers were also offered for the peace, progress and transformation of Nigeria, while there were various musical performances by the Lagos State Orchestra Group and Chapel of Christ The Light Choir, among others.