In a bid for users to effect communication
with one another, the world’s largest social network, Facebook on Monday, 23 September,
2019, has revealed its plans to purchase a neurotechnology startup, CTRL-labs, currently building a
wristband that translates movement and the wearer’s neural impulses into
digital input signals. Facebook, who first mentioned in 2017 that
it was working on a computer-brain interface that would let users type words
and send messages using only their brains, decided to acquire the New
York-based CTRL-labs, after they saw that the startup could help the social
network turn the vision into reality. CTRL-lab, currently has been working on a
wristband that “decodes” the electrical signals that neurons in the
spinal cord sends to hand muscles to tell the hands, to move in a specific way, without having to touch a
screen or keyboard. The idea of incorporating this hi-tech
device for effective communication came about, when the company realized that
users spent more time operating a technology, instead of spending time with
their loved ones and people around them, hence the search for devising more
intuitive methods to interact with devices and technology without jeopardizing
their relationship with others. According to Facebook’s Vice President of
Augmented and Virtual Reality, Andrew “Boz” Bosworth, “We spend
a lot of time trying to get our technology to do what we want rather than
enjoying the people around us,” . “We know there are more natural intuitive ways to interact with devices and technology,” he said. “If Facebook’s could achieve this plan,
the technology will make it very easy to send photos or post messages on the
social network without lifting a finger,” “It captures your intention so you
can share a photo with a friend using an imperceptible movement or just by,
well, intending to,” Bosworth said. It is not certain how CTRL-labs will fit
in with future Facebook VR and AR products, but employees from the startup will
be part of Facebook Reality Labs. The lab is run by Bosworth and Michael
Abrash, the chief scientist of the Facebook-owned VR company Oculus. However, accessibility is a clear goal,
since CTRL-labs’ technology can sense intention before any movement is even
made. Facebook didn’t say how much it paid to acquire CTRL-labs or when
the wristband could be ready. However, CBCN reports that the deal is worth around $1 billion and is the most substantial acquisition Facebook has
made in the last half decade, since it paid $2 billion to
acquire virtual reality company Oculus VR in 2014. It also marks a substantial increase in investment in Facebook’s growing
hardware ambitions, as the CTRL-Labs tech will be put to use in future
augmented and virtual reality projects at the social network.