Game of Thrones, an American fantasy drama television series created by David Benioff and D. B. Weiss for HBO has smashed records by topping the list of awardees, winning the most prestigious prize, ‘’best drama’’ despite the eighth and final series receiving a mixed response from fans and critics. The series which attracted votes at the 71st Emmy
awards on Sunday held at the Microsoft Theater in Downtown Los Angeles,
California, attracted a record viewership on HBO and has a broad, active, and
international fan base. The series premiered on HBO in the United States on April
17, 2011, and concluded on May 19, 2019, with 73 episodes broadcast over eight
seasons. The best drama series prize for Game of Thrones and the best
supporting drama actor award for Peter Dinklage meant the fantasy epic won 12
Emmys in total, including the trophies it took home at last week’s Creative
Arts Emmys. It triumphed in spite of a lukewarm response from critics
and fans, many of whom signed a petition to have the whole season remade. The show is already the most honoured series and
most-nominated drama in Emmy awards history. One of the HBO fantasy’s stars, Peter Dinklage, also took home
the prize for best supporting drama actor. BBC reports that Fleabag star and writer Phoebe Waller-Bridge, who took home the prize for best leading comedy actress, best comedy series and best comedy writing, is the  is the first British-made show to be named best comedy series. Among other British winners include Ben Whishaw, who won
best supporting actor in a limited series for his role in BBC One’s A Very
English Scandal, Charlie Brooker, who  won best television movie for Netflix’s
Bandersnatch, British writer Jesse Armstrong, whose work on HBO’s Succession
won him best writing for a drama series. See list of Emmy Awards 2019 biggest winners 12 – Game Of Thrones 10 – Chernobyl 8 – The Marvelous Mrs Maisel 7 – Free Solo 6 – Fleabag 5 – Love, Death & Robots 5 – Saturday Night Live Includes Creative Arts Emmys