The Senior Staff Association of Universities, Teaching Hospitals, Research Institutes and Associated Institutions (SSAUTHRIAI) has called on the Presidency to expedite action on the full implementation of the national minimum wage. SSAUTHRIAI made the call in a communiqué signed by its sectoral Chairman, Felix Uwadiae and Secretary, Ademola Olajire, given to journalists in Abuja on Sunday. The trade union expressed displeasure over what it described as “partial implementation of the national new minimum wage.” The union also pleaded with the government to reconsider its plan to close the nation’s borders because prices of foodstuffs have gone high, saying that the right things should be done. While President Muhammadu Buhari had on April 18, signed a new minimum wage into law, the negotiations between the federal government and the Joint National Public Service Negotiating Council has broken down due to unresolved irreconcilable differences in their proposals. The last negotiations, which was supposed to hold on September 4, was suspended and rescheduled to hold on September 16 at the instance of both parties. While the federal government proposes 9.5 per cent salary increase for employees on grade levels 07 to 14 and five per cent for those on grade levels 15 to 17, the organised labour is demanding 30 per cent increase for officers on grade levels 07 to 14 and 25 per cent increase for grade levels 15 to 17. The communiqué reads in part: “The council-in-session appreciates Mr. President for signing the new national minimum wage bill into law. However, the union shows its displeasure in the partial implementation of the new national minimum wage. “SSAUTHRIAI therefore, urges Mr. President to expedite action in its full implementation. “The President should urgently and personally intervene on the issue of the committee working out modalities for the implementation of the new national minimum wage for the workers to ensure its implementation.” The union also appealed to Buhari to reconsider his decision to close the nation’s borders, as it has resulted in the astronomic increase in the prices of some staple foods like rice, beans and groundnut oil, while the alternative local products are not readily available “Where they exist, the prices have become prohibitive, due to the low quantity available.” While sympathising with the federal government on the killings and abductions going in different parts of the country, the organisation demanded that government should “reorganise the nation’s security architecture in order to combat the security challenges to conform to the reality on ground. “The issue of incessant killing, kidnappings, herdsmen attack, armed robbery, Boko Haram and other social vices has been on the increase in recent times in the country. “While we sympathise with the family of those who lost their lives and others who are affected, we humbly plead with Mr President, to re-organise the nation’s security apparatus to conform to the reality on ground,” it added. The union also expressed concerns that in spite of the judgment of the National Industrial Court delivered in September 2013 on the skipping of CONRAISS 10, the management of some research institutes were yet to comply. The council therefore, called for total compliance with the court judgment or the national executive council of SSAUTHRIAI will direct branches of the sector to proceed on industrial action to enforce implementation. SSAUTHRIAI also called for “the total review of Pension Reform Act 2014, to allow retirees access their lump sum (100 per cent) as well as prompt payment on retirement.”