There was wild jubilation in Abeokuta following the victory of Prince Dapo Abiodun at the election petition tribunal as the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal led by Justice Yusuf Halilu affirmed his victory in the March 9, gubernatorial election in the state. The Ogun State Election Petitions Tribunal had on Saturday struck out the petition of the governorship candidate of the  Allied Peoples Movement in the state, Adekunle Akinlade, against the victory of the All Progressives Congress’ candidate, Dapo Abiodun. The jubilant are supporters of Dapo Abiodun and members of the All Progressives Congress(APC) who since morning surged into Isabo, waiting for the outcome of the petition. In affirming Abiodun’s victory, the tribunal declared that the petitioner, Hon. Abdulkabir Adekunle Akinlade of the Allied People’s Movement (APM) “did not only failed, but also irredeemably failed to prove” his case against Abiodun of the All Progressives Congress(APC). The Tribunal chairman, Justice Yusuf Halilu held that Akinlade’s petition ” is destined to fail, it failed and is hereby dismissed.” Justice Yusuf Halilu, in a unanimous judgement said the petition lacked merit, describing it as ‘lazy, deficient and shallow’. In his judgement, Halilu declared that  Akinlade’s petition was destined to fail for lack of substance. He said, “This petition is destined to fail, it failed and it is hereby struck out.” Earlier before the eventual dismissal, the tribunal in it’s ruling on the preliminary objections had struck out Akinlade’s application seeking disqualification of Abiodun on the grounds of submitting false academic qualification. He ruled that the issue of information about academic qualification in Abiodun’s sworn affidavit had been laid to rest by the Appeal court. He added that Abiodun was duly elected by virtue of scoring the highest number of valid votes cast by the voters and declared winner by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), saying the Tribunal concur with it and has no reason whatsoever to tinker with the outcome of the March 9 governorship election in Ogun State Meanwhile, the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ogun Chapter, has commended the   decision of the Ogun State Governorship Election  Petition Tribunal affirming the election of Prince Dapo Abiodun as duly elected Governor of Ogun State, as an affirmation of a popular and overwhelming candidate. In a statement issued on Saturday in Abeokuta and signed by the Publicity Secretary of the Ogun APC Caretaker Committee, Tunde Oladunjoye, the party commended the panel of judges for a detailed and thorough job that is so clear, convincing and beyond reasonable doubt. Indeed, justice has been served. The statement reads in part: 
“ The party wishes to commend the judges for a thorough job done. The detailed nature of the judgement clears all doubts and reconfirms our belief that the petition by Abdulkabir Akinlade, APM and their sponsors as mere distractions  by sore losers.” “It is very commendable that the judgment of the Tribunal was relayed live on radio  and television stations and steamed on the internet. This has exposed the lack of depth, procedurally contaminated and virus invested Petition to the whole world.  In fact, it is very shameful for a candidate and party  that were touting to govern a so educationally advanced state like Ogun”. “Our advice is for these people to desist from their distractions and join Prince Dapo Abiodun in building the future of Ogun State together. The Governor has been running the promised all inclusive government” “While thanking our party leaders and members for standing steadfast,  we also commend the section of the media that has remained ethical and unbiased.”