Online education
tools have completely transformed the way we learn. These websites empower
millions of people from around the world to harness their skills, launch
businesses, and create meaningful changes in their lives.
For those looking for websites to learn skills, here you’ll find the 10 best sites for  online education. Coursera:
 Coursera has over 2,700
online courses you can choose from and are backed by universities. It can also
lead to you having degrees. CreativeLive: CreativeLive
gives free, live classes with the world’s top experts in photography, business,
design, craft, and audio. Instructors include New York Times contributor, Victoria Will
and entrepreneur Tim Ferriss from Forbes’ “Names
You Need to Know.” Khan Academy: This
nonprofit offers free
online classes that students tackle at their own pace. The classes cover most
subjects through high school levels, and some courses dip into early college
content. Udemy:  Students
choose from over 130,000 online courses, which cover a broad range of focuses
and make use of more than 50,000 instructors. Babbel: Learn a new language with this fun, engaging online learning
platform. Users pay by the month for this subscription service, but newcomers
can try out a course for free. OpenSesame: For
those interested in business, OpenSesame
provides variety of online training courses designed specifically to foster
productivity in business. If you don’t know where to start, advisors can help
curate a course load based on your goals. CodeAcademy: Learn to code for free in HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ruby, and
more. HighBrow: HighBrow centers on short courses that are emailed daily to
your inbox. Subjects
can be traditional or outside-the-box, including classes like “Introduction to
Commodities and Commodity Markets,” “How to Edit Photos in
Lightroom,” and “How to Improve Your Memory.” Udacity: You could earn a nanodegree in almost any tech field with
Udacity. Courses range from web development to self-driving cars and artificial
intelligence. The site also offers a master’s degree program in Computer
Science through its partnership with Georgia Tech. Daily Burn: If you want to add some fitness skills to your life,
the Daily Burn is the perfect place to start. For a monthly membership fee,
users have access to thousands of workout videos and personalized regiments. If
you want the gym feeling in your living room, you can tune in for live workout
sessions, broadcast daily for members every morning.