Managing Director, Calm Global Information Technology Limited, Mr. Gideon Iranloye, has said that adopting electronic health management in Nigeria’s health sector would save lives, build data base and reduce financial losses in hospitals. He stated this during an interview with newsmen at the 62nd national council on health which held in Asaba, Delta state. The expert said that many patients, particularly accident victims die daily in the country’s hospitals due to lack of medical information. According to him, only an electronic health management system can provide a centrally coordinated data base of patients in the country’s health sector. “Why electronic health management? The governing principle is that patients, care givers and other relevant stakeholders are linked together to ensure a progressively better outcome in a model that continuously learns and improves. “The traditional health care system is complex; hospitals and healthcare services involve many actors and span many sectors and employs hundreds of staff working in professional, functional and geographical groups,” he said. He said that with a coordinated electronic system, patients’ information can be centrally managed and monitored for effective and efficient service delivery by all stakeholders to ensure timely intervention to save lives. “We are here in Asaba to present this technology to the national council on health, the highest decision making organ in the health sector in Nigeria, where I delivered a paper on the proposal for an electronic health management solutions. “We have developed the Kokom app a bespoke electronic health system that unlocks a unified healthcare monitoring, interaction and communication between patients, healthcare practitioners and industry stakeholders. “Our solution is a web-based application built according to global standards and technology that allows vertical and horizontal scaling, enabling the provision of the right care at the right time in the right place by the right resources with the right skill sets. “Koko has gone from being a concept, to a mature and constantly evolving enterprise solution that is proven to save lives, monies and strengthening healthcare,” he said. He noted that government partnership would not only ensure saving of lives, but strengthen the progress in consolidating the achievement of the universal health coverage in the country.