The World Health Organisation (WHO) has enjoined Nigerians to engage in regular exercise to promote healthy lifestyle. The WHO  Officer in –Charge, Nigeria, Dr Clement  Peter, who gave the advise during  the second edition of the ‘’Walk the Talk’’ with the theme: “The Health for All Challenge” said that regular exercise, helps to promote  healthy lifestyle. While calling on all Nigerians to take preventive measures to promote their health, Dr Peter said that the Abuja ‘’Walk the Talk’’ was organised with the aim of create awareness about Universal Health Coverage (UCH). “We are calling on all Nigerians to engage in exercise on a personal basis, which should be done at least three times in a week, so as to achieve universal health for all in the country. ‘’Walk the Talk was  also part of the activities  to the forth coming United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) high-level meeting on UHC coming up in New York on September 23, 2019’’, he added. While applauding those that participated in the walk, he stressed the need to ensure that all Nigerians sustain it. “What we need to do is to make sure that we sustain this walk and make sure that it is something that we can do monthly. This will make us to live healthy in this country”. On her part, Founder of Well Being Foundation, Africa, Mrs Toyin Saraki said the walk was aimed at achieving universal health for all. She outlined the several benefits to regular exercise to include, weight loss, low risk of heart disease, diabetes and high blood pressure amongst others. She said, “Regular exercise curbs diabetes, heart disease, obesity, High blood pressure and it generally makes you feel much better”, she said. While calling on Nigerians to adopt the habit of regular exercise, she added that she was happy to be part of the WHO Walk the Talk program. “I am really happy to be here for the second edition of Abuja walk the talk in conjunction with the WHO, the federal ministry of health and the wellbeing foundation Africa. “This has been an extremely successful edition. Last year we had over 4,000 persons walk, ran and some few exercises, this year I think we have about 6,500. “This is part of the challenge to make everybody aware of the benefits of regular exercises to their health. We advise that everybody should walk at least 35 minutes three times a week”, she added.