The Federal Government has reiterated its commitment to repositioning the Transport sector through the provision of enabling environment for the sector to operate and thrive. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, stated this at the 9th Quadrennial National Delegates Conference of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), in Abuja. The SGF, represented by the Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Senator Omotayo Alasoadura, noted that the present administration had invested so much in road construction and rehabilitation, aimed at repositioning “the transport sector for inclusive socio-economic development, peace and security of the country. “I want to also assure you that this administration will continue to commit a reasonable chunk of our income in the provision of safe and smooth world class road network”. He reassured the Union that Government would continue to strengthen the unity of trade unions through constant consultations and collaboration, as well as to provide policy direction and guidelines for the smooth operation of the Union. Mustapha enjoined the NURTW to partner with the Federal Road Safety Corps in ensuring that drivers obey road signs and regulations for the safety of all road users. The SGF acknowledged the enormous contribution of the NURTW to national development, “especially in providing employment to the youths, sanitizing commercial drivers on safety and organizing orderly vehicular activities in motor parks across the country, as well as fighting poverty by providing loans to small and medium transport business operators”. Mustapha commended the Union for following a healthy path in changing its leadership at national, zonal, state and local government levels, and for toeing the line of globally-recognized democratic and civil norms in its activities. He congratulated the outgoing leadership of the Union, led by Alhaji Usman Najeem Yasin, and prayed that the incoming leadership would build on the successes of the outgoing. In his remarks, the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, expressed satisfaction with the level of peace and industrial harmony prevalent in the Road Transport sector, suggesting that the Union’s leadership had fully embraced the tenets of decent work, which include sustainable employment, rights at work, dialogue and workplace protection. “These Key pillars of Decent Work are the bedrock of industrial peace and harmony”, he added. Represented by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, William Alo, Ngige pledged the Ministry’s continued support of the Union, and solicited the deepening of relationship and cooperation between the two. In a goodwill message, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, acknowledged the significant role which NURTW had played and continued to play in the socio-economic affairs of the nation, particularly by enhancing trade and commercial activities. He lauded the Union for acquitting itself creditably in spite of all odds and enjoined them to support government, particularly in the fight against insecurity, by providing information to government on criminal activities.