The commissioner for Technology Development, Mr Meekam Mgbenwelu, gave the assurance on Saturday at a public function in Owerri. Mgbenwelu said this at the graduation ceremony of 250 students trained by the state government on Information and Communication Technology (ICT) at the Ahiajoku convention centre. The commissioner said the students who were drawn from the Imo University, had been equipped with specialised skills on computer programming and coding, among others. ”As we celebrate you today, we urge you to remain resourceful and put the knowledge and experience you have garnered in the past months to good use as we all join hands to rebuild our dear state,“ he told the students. The commissioner also called on the beneficiaries to utilise the knowledge gained in supporting the rebuild Imo agenda of the governor. He said that Gov. Emeka Ihedioha-led government was working in close collaboration with the nine tertiary institutions, in the state to train students on technical skills. Such skills he said include; application and website development as well as embedded systems design. The commissioner, who had worked with Google, Microsoft and other international ICT firms, said that he was working hard to bring his vast experience to bear in the rebuilding process of the state. ” Through healthy partnerships with local and international ICT firms, we are also directing attention to rural areas, because the rebuild Imo agenda of the governor is equally targeted at those at the grassroots,” he said. He also said that the current administration was already partnering Google, Microsoft, NGOs and private individuals in a bid to assemble ideas for rebuilding the state. He also said that ICT centres in all the 27 local government areas (LGAs) of the state would be revamped through the ministry’s department of end user support and advisory services. According to him, the move will effectively computerise departments, ministries and agencies of government for smoother running of their daily activities. He thanked the governor’s wife, Mrs Ebere Ihedioha, Microsoft and Nzuko laboratories for co-sponsoring the training programme. (NAN)