Operatives of ‘Operation Crush’, attached to Imota Police Division, Lagos State Police Command, have arrested nine notorious cultists, responsible for the violent clashes in the area. The suspected cultists – Emmanuel Chinonso, 21, Thomas Israel, 20, Ariyo Omonuga, 25, Oyerinde Omoniyi, 23, Adelaja Opeyemi, 28,  Hassan Babatunde, 26, Sodiq Babatunde, 24,  Sodiq Oladire, 22, and Shakiru Liasu, 18,  – are said to be members of the Eiye confraternity. Speaking on the arrest of the suspects in a press statement issued on Sunday, Lagos Police Public Relations Officer, Elkana Bala, said two battle axe, knives, and one beret belongng to Eiye confraternity, were recovered from the suspects. Giving further details on the arrest of the suspects, Bala said, “ On September 6, 2019, at about 9 a.m. Imota Police Station received information from a reliable source that some cultists on the Police wanted list were sighted in the Igbalu community. “ Operatives of Operation Crush, attached to the Division were promptly deployed to the area. Two suspects Chinonso and Israel were arrested. The suspects confessed that they are key leaders of Eiye confraternity, and that their gang is responsible for a series of violent attacks recorded in Imota, Ikorodu. “ In a follow-up investigation, seven additional suspects were arrested between September 6 and 8. They are Omonuga, Omoniyi, Opeyemi, Babatunde, Babatunde, Oladire and Liasu.” The police spokesperson said the investigation is ongoing and the suspects will be charged to court soon. In another development, two robbery suspects were arrested by the Bariga Police Division on September 7 at 11:55 p.m. The division had acted on a complaint they received, which led to the arrest of  Francis Aiyekomologbon, for robbing Damilare Ismaila of his Samsung Phone. While 29-year-old Daniel Okorie was arrested at No. 13 Olarewaju Street, Akoka, for attempting to steal one Paragon white Bus, parked by Tolu Onyenusi. Bala said the suspects confessed to the commission of the crimes, as the investigation is ongoing and suspects will be charged to court.