Alade Tasma The Chief Whip of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Lateef Rotimi Abiru has advised residents of the state to ensure cleanliness of their environment at all times, urging them to shun dumping of refuse indiscriminately in an unauthorised places to avoid environmental hazards. Hon. Abiru made this call at Bariga LCDA secretariat while speaking at this year’s pre-budget stakeholders parley organised by the Lagos State House of Assembly which held simultaneously in all the 40  “Constituencies of the State. Speaking at the well attended parley, the lawmaker tasked residents of Bariga on the need to maintain a cleaner environment, urging them to comply with the state environmental laws and to embrace attitudinal change in the area of refuse disposal as well as join hands with the state government in a renewed effort to preserve the environment for the betterment of the state. “The Lagos State House of Assembly is appealing to residents to comply with the environmental laws of the state, embrace attitudinal change and join hands with the state government in its renewed commitment to preserve the environment,” Abiru stated. The lawmaker who is on his fourth term mission into the State Assembly as the representatives of Shomolu constituency 02 disclosed that this year’s edition of the parley was to involve various communities in the state on how residents could be re-orientated on the need to properly handle the environmental challenges with the major objective of ridding Lagos of its recurrent waste challenges. “This appeal became imperative against the backdrop of findings that some residents in the state still prefer to violate the environmental laws and involve in unwholesome acts despite efforts being put in place by the state government to sensitise residents on the need to protect the environment and the huge investment injected into the sector,” Abiru stated. He stressed that the stakeholders meeting is also an avenue for participants, communities and organisations to come up with suggestions on how to bring to an end, the lingering threat of environmental challenges in the state. Noting all suggestions and recommendations made by constituents and the appeal on the need for citing of a re-cycling plant in Bariga in pursuit of waste to wealth programme of the state government, Abiru urged residents to always be conscious of a cleaner environment and desist from dumping their waste indiscriminately.