Chioma Joseph, Lagos The management of New Planet Resorts, Lagos has described the video clip showing a mentally unstable woman in her premise as untrue. It would be recalled that a fake video clip of an incident, involving an alleged mentally unsound lady, found sitting in an unidentified dirty water channel, said to have been shot in an unknown location, was posted in the internet with a tag suggesting that the incident happened in the popular Resorts located at Aka Road, Ajangbadi, Lagos state. The video which the Resorts Management said was the handiwork of some mischief makers, has elicited public outrage and criticisms from numerous lovers of the Resorts. According to some New Planet Resorts customers who spoke to our Correspondent, “the fake video clip was part of smear campaign and a calculated attempt by some yet to be identified competitors, who they said were merely jealous and threatened by the success story of the Resorts. In the words of Barrister Tunde Fadugba, a Lagos based Legal Practitioner, who has been patronizing the Resorts since inception, “it is indeed sad that some people do not appreciate good product and fellow Nigerian efforts to contribute his quota to the development of the country. “This is the only hotel that employs every tribes and ethnic groupings, including Hausa, Yoruba, Edo, Rivers, Efik, Igbo, etc. When I critically watched this video that has now gone viral, I was shaking my head in disbelieve and disgust, on how some people have perverse mind full of evil. “In the first place, the environment where the incident happened has no resemblance with the international clean environment of the New Planet Resorts that I know. In fact, this is clearly the handiwork of some disgruntled elements, who were trying in vain to run down this hub of entertainment in Lagos. “I will advice the Resorts management to endeavour to unmask, identify the perpetrators of this fake video with the aim of prosecuting them. Let them seek redress in court,” Similarly, Chief Friday Olooko, a regular guest at the resort said, “this is the only place I lodge whenever I am in Lagos on my regular business trips. The calibre of personalities, including government officials that visits here and the security arrangements involving the police, Army, Civil Defence, DSS and their internal private security, clearly make it  impossible that such incident took place here unnoticed. The originators of that fake video should be arrested and send to jail.” However, investigation by a team of correspondent, suggests the alleged video clips may be the handiwork of envious competitors who are threatened by the popularity of the resort. When the Management of the Resorts was contacted, its General Manager, Mr. Audu and the Public Relations Officer, Mr. Wisdom Anierobi, denied knowledge of the incident within their premises. They described the fake video as a futile campaign of calumny, while warning the perpetrators of such malicious act to desist or face the full weight of the law. Anierobi, hinted our correspondent that the Resorts would issue a press statement in due course.