By Isaac Job, Uyo The Eastern Command of the Nigeria Navy at Ibaka, Mbo Local Government Area, has arrested six suspects with 416 bags of contraband rice in two different raids along the coastal area in Akwa Ibom state. The boat carrying the first set of 223 bags of 50kg rice was intercepted in the early hours of April 28 by officials of the navy, but no arrest was made as the driver of the boat escaped. The second boat carrying 193 bags of 50kg rice was intercepted and six suspects arrested. Other items seized include, two pumping machines and two outboard engines. Parading the suspects yesterday in Ibaka during the handing -over of the suspects, and items to the Nigeria Customs Service, the Commanding Officer, Forward Operation Base, Captain Toritseju Vincent, observed that smuggling of rice is inimical to the growth of Nigeria’s rice industry. He said the navy would continue to do its best to nip rice smuggling in the bud and bring it to a stop, to promote government’s drive towards the production of rice locally. “On behalf of the flag officer commanding the Eastern Naval Command, I hereby hand over 223 bags of Habiba rice seized in the early hours of April 28. It was unaccompanied because the suspects abandoned the boat and the products, the pumping machine and an outboard engine. “In the same morning April 28, we also intercepted another boat with six suspects. I am officially handing over the suspects, the boat, pumping machine and outboard engine to you, the Nigeria Customs along with 193 bags of Marori Benze rice, which we believe was brought in from Cameroon,” Capt. Vincent added. Zonal Commander, Nigeria Customs Service, Assistant Comptroller, Kolade Iloyode, who received the suspects and bags of rice from the navy promised that the suspects will be handed over for prosecution to serve as deterrent to others. Iloyode, who was represented by Deputy Superintendent of Customs, Comptroller General of Customs Strike Force (CGC), Zone C, Akwa Ibom state, Kabir Ogah, commended the navy for the support in combating smuggling, adding that the activities of smugglers are detrimental to government’s policy on rice sufficiency.