By Ukpono Ukpong, Abuja Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Ameachi has disclosed that the federal government is expecting to take delivery of the first batch of 10 new rail coaches, out of the 64 coaches expected from China in June He said this is in fulfillment of the Buhari administration determination to augment the available coaches of the Nigerian Railway Corporation as well as deploy to the standard gauge rail lines in the country, particularly, the Abuja-Kaduna rail line to reduce the congestion created by the activities of bandits and kidnappers on the Abuja-Kaduna highway. According to a statement issued on Monday and signed by the Head, Press and Public Relations in the ministry, Muhammad Idris, the minister gave the hint over the weekend when he led a delegation to China to inspect the pace of work on the construction of the coaches at the Chinese Railway Rolling Stock Corporation (CRRC) Tangshan, China. He noted that the minister requested that the available 10 coaches be delivered to Nigeria latest June, for deployment to the various standard gauge rail lines in the country. “We need coaches by June latest. We need coaches that can carry men from one point to another and we need a minimum of 10 coaches now out of the 64. “I requested for 10 coaches now because we need to improve on the Abuja-Kaduna line. If the 10 doesn’t come, there is nothing I can do, but it has to come because they have to manufacture for us to use on the Abuja-Kaduna line and again on the Lagos-Ibadan rail line which will soon be ready pending when the construction of the remaining coaches will be completed,” Amaechi stated. While lamenting on the slow pace of work, the minister urged the manufacturers to improve on it, adding that the contract which was signed in December 2019 to manufacture 64 coaches for Nigeria was supposed to have expired in February 2019. “The pace of construction is slow and they need to improve on it. In fact, the contract has expired, we may not have paid all the money, but we paid quite a substantial sum and therefore, they should construct speedily,” he said. On his part, the General Manager, CRRC Tangshan Co., Ltd, Mr. Zhou Junnian expressed excitement over the visit of the Nigerian delegation to the CRRC and for their trust. Mr. Junnian explained that the passenger coach components are 100 percent from China, adding that materials for works depend on the speed of the product and the customer requirements.