Okerafor Athanatius, Jalingo The Director, Connectional Ministries of the Southern Nigeria Conference of the United Methodist Church in Nigeria (UMCN), Rev. Philip Micah Dopah has slammed President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) led Federal Government over the persistent increase of insecurity across the country, Taraba State inclusive. Rev. Micah Dopah, who expressed dissatisfaction over what he described as wanton destruction of lives and property without remorse, stated this while addressing Journalists in Jalingo, the Taraba State capital. He said the high rate of kidnapping, armed banditry, herdsmen attack and other criminal activities going on across the States of Nigeria is an indication that the Country is at the Verge of failure and collapse. “We are no more secured in this Country, as a result of insecurity, Government is not serious about the security of its citizens”, he said. Curbing the menace of insecurity and other social vices to an extent in some parts of the Country, the Cleric described the State Governments as toothless bull dogs saying, the Police and other Security apparatus are in the hands of the Federal Government. He enumerated over ten people in Jalingo and other parts of Taraba State who are presently victims of kidnapping not to talk of thousands who have been killed and those freed. Rev. Dopah however, suggested that the Lawmakers at the National Assembly sponsor a Bill allowing the State Governments access to its own State Police. He said, the States should also be allowed to always use the support of the local Vigilantes who according to him, know the difficult terrain and hideouts of criminals in some localities. The man of God further disclosed that both Christians and Muslims should coexist peacefully. He called on the leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and that of the Muslim Council to allow their followers live by what they preach. “The two major bodies preach Peace but these preaching do not reflect on the lives of their followers”, said Rev. Micah.