Henry Omunu, Abuja The House of Representatives ad hoc committee probing the processes of collecting, maintaining and usage of data by the Revenue Mobilization Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) on Tuesday threatened to issue a bench warrant to arrest the acting Chairman of the revenue sharing commission, Shettima Abba-Gana for failing to honour its summons. Chairman of the House ad hoc committee, Rep. Mark Gbillah, who issued the threat at the hearing organized by the committee, explained that Shettima’s non- appearance at the hearing is an indication that he does not respect the constitution of the country. Rep. Gbillah, said that the RMAFC had earlier written the ad hoc committee, requesting for the removal of the committee’s chairman from the probe panel in order not for the commission to be investigated. He declared that the House committee has been calling for the proper assessment of documents regarding data collection processes and maintenance in the disbursement of revenue to states. Present at yesterday’s hearing were representatives of Bauchi, Benue and Plateau states out of 36 states representatives expected, while among the key stakeholders summoned by the ad hoc committee, only the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) sent representatives. Dismayed by the lackadaisical attitude of states and agencies summoned by the committee to the ongoing investigation, a committee member, Rep. Usman Muhammad said that “while we are working, some institutions are not really ready to work for the country to be great again. The non-support to the federal government by stakeholders is a sabotage.” Responding to the queries by the committee, the Benue state Commissioner for Finance and Economics Planning, David Olofu, said the revenue sharing formula is lopsided and advised that it should be properly looked into to avoid crisis in the country. The representatives of the three states present at the hearing admitted that the indices approved in 2013 has since been in use for the revenue sharing formula. Similarly, the representatives of the apex bank and the FIRS, Abubakar Kure and Abdulazeez Mustapha respectively, stated that they have not had any interface with the RMAFC as required in the Act except through Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC) meetings. “The CBN has not had any interface with the RMAFC as requested by the Act. However, if they request any detailed information from the CBN, we are ready to provide. All information ever given to the RMAFC are in hard copies,” said Kure, who is the acting director, banking and services department at the apex bank. Stakeholders at the hearing, however, advised that the RMAFC move from analogue to electronic means of transmitting data.