An Ikeja Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court has denied two dropouts of Babcock University, Don-Chima George, 25 and Olusegun Rasak, 28,  bail for allegedly drugging and gang-raping a 24-year-old woman in a hotel in Lekki, Lagos. Justice Abiola Soladoye, while ruling on their bail application, said the applicants had not provided any compelling circumstances which would warrant them being granted bail. “It is without doubt that a defendant is presumed innocent until proven guilty as provided for in Section 36 (5) of the 1999 Constitution as amended. “Not withstanding this, the court is still vested with the duty to consider the weight of facts in the affidavit placed before it viz-a-viz the charge and proof of evidence placed before the court. “In exercising my discretion, I am, therefore, of the considered view that the applicants have not placed any compelling or exceptional circumstances to warrant this honourable court to exercise its discretion. “Bail is denied to the applicants and this honourable court shall give this case accelerated hearing,” Justice Soladoye said. The two accused persons, George and Rasak are facing a two-count charge of conspiracy and rape and are alleged by the prosecution to have committed the offences on February 3, at Delankaster Hotels, Lekki Phase 1, Lagos. The prosecution said the defendants, while at a nightclub, allegedly mixed the complainant’s (name withheld) drink with a substance that rendered her unconscious and thereafter, they took the complainant to George’s father’s hotel, where they allegedly took turns raping her while videotaping the the entire incident. According to the prosecution, the offences contravened Sections 258 and 409 of the Criminal Law of Lagos state, 2015. During the bail hearing held on March 27, Dr Jide Martins, the Director of Lagos State Directorate of Public Prosecutions (DPP) had appealed that the court should deny the defendants bail due to the nature of the offences. Justice Soladoye has adjourned the case until May 15 for trial.