Tom Okpe, Abuja The Presidency has directed Abubakar Malami, the Attorney General of the Federation, to immediately intervene in the case of Zainab Aliyu, a Nigerian student detained in Saudi Arabia after hard drugs were allegedly found in a bag labeled in her name at a Saudi airport. The Nigerian government, through the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has since said Ms Aliyu was a victim of a cartel at the Aminu Kano airport in Kano who reportedly specializes in placing hard drugs in bags in the names of air travelers, to their destination countries. Some members of the cartel have been reportedly arrested. The Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Foreign Affairs and Diaspora matters, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, made this disclosure in a press statement on Monday in Abuja through her Media Assistant, Abdul-Rahman Balogun. Erewa said the president gave the directive two weeks ago when the matter was brought to his attention. She said: President Muhammadu Buhari gave the directive immediately the matter was brought to his attention about two weeks ago. My office has been working with the AGF as well as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in that regard”. She said progress was been made in Ms Aliyu’s case along with two others in similar circumstances in that country. The statement said Ms Aliyu though detained, has not been put on trial by the Saudi Arabia government and with the hard evidence that those who implicated her have been arrested, a strong legal case is being made to the Saudi authorities. “Habibu Aliyu, father of the alleged drug courier had appealed to the Federal Government of Nigeria, the Saudi authorities and the International Communities as well as meaning individuals to intervene in her daughter’s case to save her from being executed wrongly. “Habibu who is not happy that his daughter is in a foreign prison despite the recent discovery that she was framed up by some drug cartel explained that the allegations against Zainab entering a foreign country with Tramadol was absolute falsehood as recent events and arrests have confirmed the girls innocence”. Zainab, a student of Maitama Sule University Kano had travelled from Mallam Aminu Kano Int’l Airport in company of her mother, Mrs. Maryam Aliyu and sister, Hajara was arrested over the allegations that a luggage bearing her name tag, containing the unlawful substances. She was accused of entering the country with an illegal dosage of Tramadol but was later discovered to be a victim of a cartel that specializes in keeping hard drugs in travelers luggage’s who are already in the custody of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), the statement said.