Patrick Okohue The State Executive Council (SEC) of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Plateau State has ratified the earlier suspension of the chairman of the party, Hon. Damishi Sango and his Deputy, Hon. Amos Gombi Guyol, by the state exco. The SEC has also setup a seven-man disciplinary committee, with Barr. S.T. Panwal as Chairman and Mr. Pamson Dagyat as Secretary. It would be recalled that the state executive of the party had last Wednesday suspended the chairman and his deputy for alleged misappropriation of campaign funds, funds meant for bringing succour to Internally Displaced Persons in the state, among other issues. The ratification took place at the state party secretariat in Jos, the state capital, where there was a voice vote to ratify the suspension, and 65 members of SEC agreed that both the chairman and his deputy remain suspended. Addressing SEC members, Acting Chairman of the party, Hon. Chris Hassan, said the committee has been given one month to complete its assignment. Chris said, “The SEC which is the constitutional body that is saddled with the responsibility ratifying the decision of the State Executive of the party have today agreed the suspension of the chairman, Hon. Damishi Sango and the deputy chairman, Hon. Amos Gombi Guyol are in order; in line with the provision of the constitution of the PDP. “Also a seven man committee has been setup to be chaired by Barr. S.T. Panwal and Hon. Pamson Dagyat as the Secretary; and based on constitutional provision, we are giving them one month to complete the assignment and submit their report to the Exco.” Other members of the committee include; Ventim Ntem, Dayabu Dauda, Barr. Auwal Haruna, Hon. Sylvia Miri and Moses Sule. Speaking on behalf of the National Assembly members, Senator-elect for Plateau North and current member representing Barkin Ladi/Riyom Constituency in the House Representatives, Istifanus Gyang said, “We want to say that the decision of the SEC today ratifying that of the State Exco on the grave allegations that have been raised against the chairman and his deputy, is part of the constitutional process that requires for him to have fair hearing. Gyang added, “The decision of the SEC today is to further allow the National leadership of the party to wade into the matter.” Those at the ratification were present and newly-elected members of state and National Assembly, the three vice chairmen from the three senatorial zones, chairmen of the party in the LGAs, former members of state and National Assembly, among others.