By Mathew Dadiya, Abuja Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Monday disclosed that the President Muhammadu Buhari administration is ready to embark on a historic all-party cooperation to better the lives of all Nigerians. The vice president said that people in every state want the same things and suffer the same deprivations, declaring that “they really don’t care who puts food on the table, just put the food on the table.” Osinbajo said this at the induction of new and returning governors organized by the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF) held at the State House Conference Centre, Abuja. He said that the Buhari government will renew its focus on human capital development and infrastructure, also assuring that security remains top of the administration’s agenda, adding that the insecurity challenges in parts of the country, have stretched the capacity of the nation’s law enforcement agencies considerably. However, he assured that they are committed to recruiting more men and women into all the security agencies and improving their capabilities to maintain law and order. Furthermore, the vice president said that the federal government would be working with the states on education, especially that of the girl-child and that the government has begun some work in this respect with the human development index at the National Economic Council. “We elected executive officials belong to an elite club in this nation. Of over 200 million people, the nation elects one president and one vice president, 36 governors and 36 deputies, altogether 74 Nigerians; in all 74 men and women out of 200 million people. We are so specially privileged and so enormously fortunate that our people choose us among so many other millions to lead them. “This tremendous privilege which leadership thrusts upon us also comes with grave responsibilities. Those responsibilities are multiplied by the fact that most of our people are extremely poor. “Large numbers are unable to afford good healthcare and malnutrition remains a major problem. Children in many of our states run the risk of being permanently mentally stunted because they are malnourished. Illiteracy is still significantly high and the number of out of school children is an embarrassment. “Yet in all these, our population continues to grow at over three per cent annum. We will by current projections, move from 200 million to 400 million people in the next three decades. And then we will become the third most populous nation in the world. “Most of that population will be young people under the age of 25 looking for jobs. Every one of these people, except a few living in Abuja will live in the states, your states, where you govern. They will seek schools in your states, health services in your states, food in your states and jobs in your states. “The federal government will, as is usual, possibly be blamed for the number of out-of-school children and for not investing enough in healthcare. But, you and I know that the primary responsibility for education and healthcare lies with the states. “The burdens of the citizens of our states, the pains and deprivations of their poverty is what they hope would be alleviated by electing us. No matter how we slice it, we are responsible for the quality of lives and livelihoods of the millions who live within our states and national borders. “In any event, all of the problems that our people have will be solved by men and women and not spirits. We are those men and women. History and providence have put us in these positions at this time. And we have the mental and physical wherewithal to solve the problems. But, we may or may not solve the problem, which is a choice. “We may revel in the same old excuses, and leave the poverty statistics worse or where we met them. All elected officials in Nigeria since I started following national developments, have always complained about inadequate funds. So we will not be saying anything new if and when we raise those same complaints,” the vice president stated. He recalled that Lagos state, the highest internally generated revenue earner was earning N600 million in IGR in year 2, 000 when minimum wage was increased from N7, 500 to N18, 000, about 140 per cent increase and tasked state governments on the need to increase their internal revenue generation drive in the next few years. “We must more effectively collect VAT and increase our agricultural output, work with the federal government to make broadband infrastructure available all over the country, so our young people anywhere in the country can do jobs from anywhere in the world, from their villages in any corner of Nigeria,” he said.