Chukwuemeke Iwelunmo Aviation experts across the continent will be brainstorming in Lagos to find a common ground of prosperity in the aviation sector. The  event which is held  annually is to further share thoughts and information on current challenges in the airport sub-sector of the aviation industry. The deliberation at the summit is centred on helping operators, investors and the airport business community to find a common ground of prosperity. Tagged the ‘Airport Business Summit and Expo’  holding in Lagos on May 2-3 at the Raddison Blu Hotel, Ikeja. The two-day summit is aimed at promoting the development of air transport services from the airport perspective with the theme, “Airport Economies: Consolidation of Air Transport Services”. The Summit Director, Mr Fortune Idu of FCI International Consult said,  the increasing influence of Airports in the development of economies of the region where they are located makes it imperative for airport business gathering like this which aim to help direct the development part of air transport services to meet the increasing users demand and global air traffic pressure. “The summit stems from the understanding that sound airport development, concept, plan and programme are vital for a viable, sustainable and safe total air transport system which also has a direct positive impact for fast-tracking economic development”, he stated. According to Mr Idu, for the past six years, the summit had championed discussions that have paved the directions of airport development in Nigeria and the Africa air transport market. “Within this period every summit has produced a well articulate documentary of contributions and feedback reports sent to government agencies and organisations as a guide to the future of airport business development and touch light to investors”. This summit which is expected to attract 200 delegates will feature presentations from Chief Executives of, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Skyway Aviation Handling Company Limited, Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Nigerian Railway Corporation, Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc, El-Mansur Atelier Group, Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NIMET), Max Air Limited, Comptroller-General Of Customs The CEO, FedEx/ Red Star Express Plc, Nahco Free Trade Zone (Nfz), CEO, United Bank For Africa ( UBA), Commissioner /CEO, Nigeria Export Promotion Council, Bi-Courtney Aviation Services (MMA2) CEO, Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc, on  matters that concern airports; airlines, retails, security, safety, technologist, media, taxi companies, hotels, tourist places etc. Alongside the main open summit, ABSE 2019 will also host an Agro Logistics seminar to unveil the opportunities available for using air Transport to facilitate both local and international agro-based export covering perishable goods and processed agro products.