All is set for a smooth transition of government in Ogun state on May 29, as a joint transition committee made up of representatives of the outgoing government and that of the Governor-elect, Prince Dapo Abiodun, held its maiden meeting in Abeokuta. The 26-member committee, with 15 members from the Gov. Ibikunle Amosun government and 11 from the governor-elect, met at the conference room of the Governor’s office, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. In her address, Deputy Governor, Chief (Mrs.) Yetunde Onanuga, said the meeting was necessary to ensure a seamless and peaceful transition. She charged members of the committee to be committed to the assignment in the interest of the people and the state. Also speaking, the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Taiwo Adeoluwa, who led representatives of the outgoing administration, assured that they would be handing over a truthful and realistic account on May 28. “We would be in position to hand over a comprehensive hand over notes to you on May 28,” Adeoluwa said, adding that the government has made ready the Government House and the Presidential Lodge, while all government quarters will also be made available on or before a week before handover date. He dispelled earlier reports in a section of the media that the Amosun government was not disposed to setting up a transition committee, as it was not ready to hand over. Adeoluwa stated that “there is no iota of truth in this, as our government had started the handover work since December 2018, even before the elections.” Deputy Governor-elect, Mrs. Noimot Salako-Oyedele, who led the team of the incoming government, in an interview with newsmen, said “the meeting was to further cement the seamless transition between the incumbent government and the incoming one. “We had a very robust discussion and we are very happy that the incumbent government is very prepared and ready for the transition”, she added. Salako-Oyedele said her team has provided a list of things it would need information on with timelines for each of them.