…Vows to reclaim mandate legally. Patrick Okohue The Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has rejected the outcome of the House of Representative rerun election that took place on Saturday in Ajeromi Ifelodun Federal Constituency. In a statement by the factional chairman of the party, Otunba Segun Adewale popularly known as Aeroland, he said that Hon Rita Orji had won the election, but APC and INEC connived to cancel results in areas where PDP was leading with 3,224 votes during February 23rd Election as declared By INEC and agents recorded 5,724 while Supplementary on April 27 gave the party 3,558 votes. But After the election on Saturday, the Independent National Electoral Commission INEC, declared Hon. Kolawole Taiwo of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as winner of the Ajeromi Ifelodun House of Representatives. The Returning Officer for the Constituency, Prof Mathew Ilori from University of Lagos, made the declaration at INEC Collation Centre in Ajeromi Ifelodun Local Government. According to Professor Ilori, Mr. Taiwo emerged and returned elected with 36,115 votes to defeat Mrs Rita Orji candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party who polled 32,557 votes, but PDP claimed that the results are not correct. The PDP said that it has come to their knowledge that whenever their party wins and INEC calls for a rerun, it’s a plot specifically planned to rig the rerun with falsification of results, direct confrontation and disenfranchisement of electorates and outright rigging. The party calls for a cancellation of the rerun because such cannot be called an election. The party said, it is on record that in the affected 71 polling units, “PDP voters were chased away by dangerous weapons wielding thugs, some uncollected PVCs were distributed to APC members they used in voting which created mismatch with their thumbs, INEC have a lot of questions to answer over this matter probably in court.” PDP said they are therefore protesting against the barbaric conduct of the election because such cannot be allowed to continue under a democratic setting, that if such is allowed, it will spell doom for the country’s future. The state chapter of the party called on the national leadership of the party to reject the results outrightly also because from credible report, there was nothing like election in Ajeromi but festival of result writing exercise and electoral fraud. PDP said that INEC has failed Lagosians yet again, that its candidate Hon. Rita Orji will be encouraged to go to court and get a deserving judgement against the kangaroo election marred by outright rigging which was made possible by INEC, APC and some moles in PDP who worked against the interest of the party.