By Kasara Chukwuma, Lagos The fight against malaria in Nigeria has received a major boost as the country’s leading mattresses manufacturer, Mouka Limited, in furtherance of its commitment to adding comfort to life, unveiled an innovative range of insect and mosquito repellents in commemoration of the 2019 World Malaria Day. The burden of malaria in Nigeria has assumed a worrisome dimension in recent times as the Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, recently revealed that Nigeria was responsible for 25 per cent of global malaria burden and 19 per cent of global deaths from malaria. The passion to reduce this burden was the motivation for Mouka to launch the Mouka Mozzi Insect Repellents, which the Chief Executive Officer of the company, Raymond Murphy, during a press briefing in Lagos, said creates a protective halo from mosquitoes. In line with the theme for the year’s commemoration tagged: “Zero malaria starts with me,” Murphy said there was need for the fight against malaria to become everybody’s business, stressing that Mouka Mozzi Insect Repellents were the company’s contribution towards the global campaign against malaria. According to Murphy, in addition to mosquitoes, Mouka Mozzi also provides protection from bedbugs, mould, bacteria spores, spiders, cockroaches and dust mites. “With each application, a consumer can enjoy 24- hour protection for up to three months which is not possible with insecticides,” he added. Confirming the efficacy of the insect repellents, Dr. Omoniyi Yemitan, who conducted the chemical evaluation, efficacy and toxicological assessment of Mouka Mozzi, said the products were safe for all members of the family, including pregnant women and children. Yemitan, who is a toxicologist at the Department of Pharmacology, Therapeutic and Toxicology, Lagos state University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja, assured that the active ingredient in Mouka Mozzi is extracted from plants which makes it non-hazardous for humans. In her remarks, representative of the Lagos state Commissioner for Health, Dr. Abimbola Osinowo, said the state government has renewed its commitment to tackling malaria using a multi-directional approach, including environmental management, adding that Mouka has taken a step in the right direction with the production of its repellents. Osinowo who is the state’s malaria elimination programme manager, said: “As you are all aware, malaria is endemic in Lagos state and it poses a major challenge to the state as it impedes human development.”