Joseph Inokotong, Abuja The Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN) has impacted Information and Communication Technology (ICT) skills on 230 youths across some states in the country through a one – week e-business youths training and empowerment programme. In a statement issued by the Head, Corporate Affairs Unit of SMEDAN, Ibrahim Mohammed, the training aimed at addressing youths’ unemployment in the country as the programme provided skills and knowledge for the teeming youths to enable them become self-reliant and economically independent particularly in the area of ICT. According to the statement, at the end of the training, participants are expected to learn how to do businesses on-line, market their goods, and provide services as well as know proper usage and management of social media platforms. In his remark, the Director General of SMEDAN, Dr. Dikko Umaru Radda who was represented by Alhaji Abdullahi Aliyu Musawa in Katsina state, stressed the importance of ICT to the MSMEs sector of the economy, hence the decision of SMEDAN to inculcate the spirit of ICT into entrepreneurs in the country. He urged beneficiaries to take the training with all seriousness and be committed to learn all necessary skills and knowledge on e-business and to also utilize the facilities they will receive from SMEDAN at the end of the training. Sixty eight youths, two each, drawn from each local government of Katsina State participated in the training which was also conducted in Osun, Bauchi, Kogi, Akwa Ibom and Ebonyi States. At the completion of the training, each participant received a laptop and other internet facility gadgets. The participants expressed appreciation to SMEDAN under the leadership of Dr. Dikko Umaru Radda whose gestures availed them ample opportunity to learn basic ICT skills. They promised judicious use of the empowerment packages received from SMEDAN, and proper channelling of the knowledge acquired from the training to gainful ventures.