By Kingsley Chukwuka, Jos The Plateau state executive council of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has ratified the earlier suspension of the state Chairman of the party, Damishi Sango and his deputy, Amos Gombi. It also, set-up a seven-man disciplinary committee, with S.T. Panwal as chairman and Mr. Pamson Dagyat as secretary. It would be recalled that the state executive of the party had last Wednesday suspended the chairman and his deputy for alleged misappropriation of campaign funds, funds meant for bringing succour to Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the state, among other issues. The ratification took place at the state party secretariat in Jos, the state capital, where there was a voice vote to ratify the suspension and 65 members of the council agreed that both the chairman and his deputy remain suspended. Addressing members of the PDP state council, acting Chairman of the party, Chris Hassan, said the committee has been given one month to complete its assignment. Chris said that “the SEC which is the constitutional body that is saddled with the responsibility of ratifying the decision of the state executive of the party has today agreed the suspension of the Chairman, Damishi Sango and the Deputy Chairman, Amos Gombi Guyol are in order; in line with the provision of the constitution of the PDP. “Also, a seven -man committee has been set-up to be chaired by S.T. Panwal and Pamson Dagyat is the secretary and based on constitutional provision, we are giving then one month to complete the assignment and submit their report to the state executive.” Other members of the committee include, Ventim Ntem, Dayabu Dauda, Auwal Haruna, Sylvia Miri and Moses Sule. Speaking on behalf of the National Assembly members, Senator-elect for Plateau North and current member representing Barkin Ladi/Riyom Constituency in the House Representatives, Istifanus Gyang said, “we want to say that the decision of the SEC today, ratifying that of the state executive on the grave allegations that have been raised against the chairman and his deputy, is part of the constitutional process that requires for him to have fair hearing. “The decision of the SEC today, is to further allow the national leadership of the party to wade into the matter.” PDP members at the meeting where the ratification of the suspension was upheld, include present and newly-elected members of the state assembly and National Assembly, the three vice chairman from the three senatorial zones, chairmen of the party in the local government areas, former members of state assembly and National Assembly, among others.