Joy Obakeye The Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola has said that going forward is to solve the outstanding issues of estimated billing and the supply of meters. Fashola said this on Monday in Abuja, at the public presentation of a book, “Proof of Infrastructure Delivery Across Nigeria”, a Three-Year Special Report of the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing. “In the power sector, well-meaning Nigerians acknowledge our efforts by saying clearly that their power supply experience has improved compared to 2015, and we acknowledge that the work has not finished.” “The task going forward is to solve the outstanding issues of estimated billing, the supply of meters, add more power and make the supply steady which I stated will be our medium-term goal.” He further stressed that, for the power sector, the short term goal was to ensure incremental power, adding that available records had shown that the power supply was already on the increase. “The simple question is that, are you spending more on diesel or petrol for generators today? The costs are coming down, the power supply is going up and the job is not finished. “We are consumers too, yes, the light will go off sometimes, but the good thing is that we have the capacity to bring it back. He explained that the short term objective of the ministry for the works sector was to return construction companies back to the site. Fashola explained that the short term objective of the ministry for the works sector was to return construction companies back to the site. He said that the ministry had delivered on its mandates, adding that the idea behind returning construction companies back to work was to recover all the construction jobs lost over the years. “For the housing sector, our short term objectives were to get people back to work and currently, we are building in 34 states and concluding plans to start the second phase. “The conversation before the inception of President Buhari government is that there is no Federal Government presence in some states, but today, no state can say it has no Federal Government presence”, he said.