By Isaac Job, Uyo A group, the Akwa Ibom Liberation Movement (AILM) has faulted the assertions by the Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, on the rising number of out –of- school children in Akwa Ibom state, accusing the minister of blowing the situation beyond proportion. The body stated that the figures released by the minister does not reflect the true position of out -of school -children and the unemployment statistics of the state. Addressing a press conference in Uyo at the weekend, the group’s Spokesman, Prince Emmanuel Sam, said Malam Adamu failed to disclose the methodology used in the said audit report and the indices which gave birth to the erroneous findings. “Our major concern today is the recent claim by the Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, wherein he said that Akwa Ibom state was second on the list with the highest number of out-of-school children after Kano. The minister purportedly based his assertion on personnel audit of public and private schools. “Let me say here that the minister’s claim was misleading. The minister failed to disclose the methodology used in the said audit and the indices which gave birth to the erroneous findings bandied about in the report. “ Prince Assam explained that Malam Adamu’s statement is at variance with the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) of report which noted the alarming rate of out-of-school children across the country, with a huge chunk of them in the north. “It is important to note that in the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics multiple indicators cluster survey 2016/2017, Akwa Ibom came last on the list of out -of- school children. The survey covered children of primary school age who are actually not in school. “It will interest you to know that on December 5, 2008, Akwa Ibom state signed the Child Rights Act into law to protect the growth of perceptual, emotional, intellectual, and behavioural capabilities and functioning during childhood of Akwa Ibom children under 16 years. “The law protects the Akwa Ibom child from birth to adolescence and up to 16 years such that the child is afforded the necessary protection and assistance so that he or she can fully assume responsibilities within the community.” Prince Assam said the Akwa Ibom state child rights law empowers children with capacity to enjoy physical, social, and psychological well-being to the enforcement of physical, mental and emotional freedom from abuse. He emphasized that the law also compels parents to send their children to school once they reach school age.