By Isaac Job, Uyo The Akwa Ibom state Governor, Udom Emmanuel has promised continuous partnership with the World Bank and the Community and Social Development (CSDP) agency to attract more developments to rural communities in the state. Addressing state representatives of Community and Social Development Project (CSDP) agencies from 30 states of the federation during the 2019 first quarter review meeting in Uyo yesterday, Gov. Emmanuel said the objectives of Community and Social Development Projects (CSDP) agency are in consonant with his vision for Akwa Ibom state. The governor, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Dr. Emmauel Ekuwem, said that since the advent of his administration in 2015, government has tackled the provision of social amenities to the people with messianic zeal. He disclosed that rural electrification projects remain the one of the best in the country, adding that areas that were long cut off from electricity such as Eastern Obolo have been provided with electricity. “I am happy that you have identified Akwa Ibom state as the leading state implementing community and social development projects in Nigeria. I want to assure you that we will continue to partner with your agency, the World Bank, as we work to ensure that we bring development to our people across the social layers,” the governor said. Governor Emmanuel noted that government has a social contract with the people to provide certain social services such as education, healthcare, housing and other social services to the people. He disclosed that under direct labour initiative, the government has remodeled over 300 schools across the three senatorial districts in the last four years. He said that “commercially viable roads are being constructed as well as the feeder roads and the aim of this government in its determined efforts to provide sustainable development and growth is to open up the hinterlands for free movement of goods and services.” National Coordinator of CSDP, Dr. Abdulkarim Obaje, said that Federal Project Support Unit in partnership with World Bank would continue to support states across the country. Obaje said that the meeting was meant to review the progress which state agencies were making on the field so that they could learn from best practices and also give advice where necessary.