Ukpono Ukpong, Abuja Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has said that the landmark achievements recorded by the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola made his work easier in propagating the successes of the Buhari administration to Nigerians. He stated this while delivering his goodwill remark at the public presentation of a book titled: “Proof of infrastructure delivery across Nigeria; a three-year special report of the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing in Abuja. The minister commended the former Lagos state governor, noting that as the information minister, he has always been proud to tell the world the achievements of the Buhari administration, especially in the area of infrastructure. “The ministry of power, works and housing has actually helped me a lot because right from the beginning, they have always given us things to say on this administration’s achievements. “It is on record that when the federal government information managers are addressing the media, we are proud to tell the world the achievements of this administration, especially in the area of infrastructure,” he said. Speaking, Fashola, said that the ministry had delivered on its mandate as the country has since become a construction site, adding that its short term goal was to ensure that work commences and that all abandoned projects are revisited so as to recover all the construction jobs lost over the years. He said that in the power sector, the ministry has been able to improve on the electricity supply everywhere in the country. “The simple question is that, are you spending more on diesel or petrol for generators today? The costs are coming down, power supply is going up and the job is not finished. “We are consumers too, yes, the light will go off sometimes, but the good thing is that we have the capacity to bring it back. For the housing sector, our short term objective was to get people back to work and currently, we are building in 34 states and concluding plans to start the second phase. “The conversation before the inception of President Buhari’s government is that, there is no federal government presence in some states, but today, no state can say it has no federal government presence. “Let me place on record that the ministry had discharged its responsibilities and implemented its assigned mandates with outmost dedication, commitment and in compliance with the laid down rules and regulations. “Within the period of the report, 173 memoranda were presented and approved by the federal executive council and are still counting,” he said.