The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has denied killing anybody at the home of its lawyer Mr. Ifeanyi Ejiofor. IPOB said it was the police that killed three members of the IPOB and took away their corpses. Mugabe has no will, left behind $10m, some properties – State media IPOB media and publicity secretary, Comrade Emma Powerful said the allegations by the Police was untrue and that for the Police to go to Barrister Ifeanyi Ejiofor home barely four days after the painful burial of his senior brother, is proof that those running Nigeria have descended into the abyss of iniquity. IPOB said, “The unprovoked Nigeria Police and Army invasion of the home of our lawyer, Barrister Ifeanyi Ejiofor barely four days after the painful burial of his senior brother, is proof that those running Nigeria have descended into the abyss of iniquity. “For the police to say there was a criminal complaint against Barrister Ejiofor bothering on assault and kidnapping four days after the funeral of his brother is laughable. “The only reason for this unprovoked criminal invasion with deadly intent is to kill Barrister Ejiofor to stop him from attending Federal High Court Abuja next month in the matter of Federal Government of Nigeria versus IPOB. “It is the same strategy of invade and kill doctrine they deployed in Isiama-Afaraukwu the home of our leader on 14th September 2017, a month before he was due in court, was what played out in Oraifite yesterday (Monday). “The truth remains that Nigeria Police and Army went to the home of Barrister Ifeanyi Ejiofor with the sole purpose to kill him before next month’s court date as is now their tradition. “On getting there they opened fire on unarmed civilians as usual and the two men that came out of the house were shot dead instantly. The police carried their dead and dying bodies into their van to conceal evidence and drove off. “After killing two unarmed and innocent civilians, the police doused Barrister Ejiofor’s home with petrol and set it on fire. ”This was the reality yesterday in . It was the carelessness of the police in handling the petrol they used to drench Barrister Ejiofor’s home and nearby businesses before setting them on fire that trailed back and led to the fire that gutted their van.”