Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has advised graduating students of the Mountain Top University to embrace change and disruption if they intend to compete in today’s labour market. The Governor, who was the Guest Lecturer at the Maiden Graduation Ceremony of the University owned by the Mountain of Fire Ministries, made this call on Friday at the University Multi-Purpose Hall of the University in Ibafo, Ogun State. Sanwo-Olu delivered a lecture titled: “Future of Job and the World of Work: The Need for Graduates That are Globally Competitive.” According to the Governor, the knowledge acquired in the University becomes obsolete in a short while and needs continuous advancement, urging the graduating students to adopt technology because “jobs of the future will be driven by technology”. Lagos-Ibadan Railway Stations: CCECC’s delay becoming embarrassing -Amaechi He said: “Many of the things you learnt in University will have grown obsolete even before you complete NYSC. That’s the truth. Fifty or a hundred years down the line, we didn’t know that new technologies would have emerged to disrupt the world as we know it. But it is certain that to thrive in that world, University graduates will need to be fully prepared, they will need to be educated in the tools and the languages of that world, and will need to be able to compete with multitudes of other graduates in the quest for jobs and employment. “We must also extend this to curriculum transformation. We will not progress in the 21st century using 20th century curricula. Our young people must become comfortable with coding, robotics, 3D printing and other technologies from an early age. Especially in the public school system. Regardless of what academic track our students are on: arts, sciences or social sciences; technological literacy must be a common denominator. He added that: “You must commit to lifelong learning. You will be judged not only by what you know but also how quickly you can learn new things and unlearn old ones.” Governor Sanwo-Olu listed four most important factors and trends that shape the world of today as Demographics, Youth Employment, Globalisation and the Fourth Industrial Revolution. He noted that Globalisation has shaped the way we interpret the world we live in. The Governor said: “This is a word that has come to stay with us, and to shape the way we interpret the world we live in. In its simplest terms, it refers to growing break-down of national borders. The rules that once governed a world composed of distinct nation-states are being re-written. Under the impact of technology, especially modern communication and transportation technologies, the world has taken on the characteristics of a “global village”– with implications for the present and the future of work.” He further stated that technology has made it easier for users to find job opportunities outside their immediate environment. Sanwo-Olu congratulated the graduating students and urged them to get involved in policy making and governance. In his remarks, the Vice Chancellor of the University, Professor Elijah Ayolabi, charged the students to be good ambassadors of the institution. He described the students as firstborn, pride of the institution and the symbol of her strength. He said the students represent what the Mountain Top University stands for. “What you do with the training you got is your sole responsibility. I charge you today, therefore, to remember the responsibility placed on your shoulders as the first children of MTU.” The University graduated a total of 120 students, 22 among them bagged First Class Honours in various disciplines. Other dignitaries present at the occasion include the General Overseer of MFM, Dr. Daniel Olukoya; Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, who was represented by the Secretary to the Ogun State Government, Mr. Olatokunbo Talabi; Vice Chancellors of the University of Lagos, the Lagos State University among other dignitaries.