Enugu residents have expressed optimism for  better days in 2020 but urged  government at all levels to tackle insecurity and unemployment in the country. Those who spoke  on Tuesday in Enugu, also stressed the need for  government to improve efforts at tackling insecurity and unemployment. Mr Fides Umike, a lawyer, said that for development to be achieved, government must urgently address the security challenges in the country. Umike also said that insecurity had also contributed to the  increasing rate of unemployment in Nigeria. Extend border closure to 5 years, farmer urges FG “The rising level of unemployment in the country can be attributed to the increased security challenges in the country. “Therefore there is urgent need for all levels of government, including the citizens, to begin to find a better way to end insecurity in Nigeria in 2020. “Many jobs are wasting, especially in North-East where the insecurity is high at the moment, if not for the insecurity in those states, most of our youths would have been engaged with well paying jobs,” he said. Mrs Rosemary Okafor, a civil servant, noted that the high rate of unemployment in the country was directly responsible for the increasing security challenges. Okafor said that government at all levels should collaborate and fund the security agencies with adequate modern equipment and logistics to be able to address the plethora of security challenges facing the country. “For over a decade now, Nigeria has witnessed unprecedented security challenges occasioned by the activities of militants in the south-south region, kidnappers in the south-east, and violent armed robbery in almost all parts of the country. “I advise government and every citizen of Nigeria to rise up against all forms of evil in 2020 so that our country will be better than 2019,” she said. Miss Ijeoma Iheaka, a student said: “My expectation from the government in 2020 is that, it should find a better way to stop insecurity in all places. “This is necessary for those that are out of school to go back because without education, insecurity will increase in future.“ Mr Emma Nebo, a businessman, noted that improved check on the security of the country in 2020 would enable more investors have more confidence in staying in the country. He called on the Federal Government to urgently bring in security experts who would advise it on how the security challenges in the country could be tackled. However, a security agent, who pleaded anonymity, said the Federal Government had made tremendous effort to reduce insecurity in the country. He cited the closure of land borders as one of such efforts, adding that it had would go a long way in addressing security challenges in the country. “Our borders are porous, that is one of the reasons for the insecurity, but with closure of land borders, I am sure the level of security challenges is going down and by 2020 it will be reduced drastically,” he said. (NAN)