Professor Wole Soyinka, Nobel laureate has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to  ‘rein in his wild dogs of disobedience’ Soyinka in his reaction to the rearrest of Omoyele Sowore, Convener, #RevolutionNow Protest, and his co-defendant, Olawale Bakare by the operatives of the Department of State Service (DSS), on Friday said : “It has become imperative and urgent to send this message to President-General Buhari: Rein in your wild dogs of disobedience. And for a start, get a trainer to teach them some basic court manners!”  No fewer than 15 armed officers of the DSS ambush Sowore and Bakare at the court Sowore and Bakare, however, resisted being rearrested, running back into the courtroom. The development led to the disruption of court sitting as the judge hurriedly retired to her chamber while the court workers, lawyers and journalists scampered for safety. Amidst the commotion that pervaded the courtroom, the officers of the DSS stood their ground on rearresting the defendants. Soyinka speaking said: “Only yesterday, in my commentary on the ongoing Sowore saga, I pointed out the near-perfect similarity between plain crude thuggery and the current rage of court disobedience. Little did I suspect that the state children of disobedience would aspire to the level of the African wild dogs on a pack hunt,” Soyinka said. Nnamdi Kanu ordered Amaechi’s attack – IPOB “I apologize for underestimating the DSS capacity for the unthinkable. I reiterate the nation’s concern, indeed alarm, about the escalating degradation of the judiciary through multiple means, of which disobedience of court orders is fast becoming the norm. “May I remind this government that disobedience calls to disobedience, and that disobedience of the orders of the constitutional repository of the moral authority of arbitration – the judiciary – can only lead eventually to a people’s disregard of the authority of other arms of civil society, a state of desperation that is known, recognized and accepted as – civil disobedience. “It is so obvious – state disobedience leads eventually to civil disobedience, piecemeal or through a collective withdrawal of recognition of other structures of authority. That way leads to chaos but – who set it in motion? As is often the case, the state, unquestionably. Such a state bears full responsibility for the ensuing social condition known as anomie. “It has become imperative and urgent to send this message to President-General Buhari: Rein in your wild dogs of disobedience. And for a start, get a trainer to teach them some basic court manners!”