Aisha Alkali Wakil, aka ‘Mama Boko Haram’, has been arraigned by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in Borno State High Court over an alleged N66m fraud DailyTime was informed the offense, a three-count charge of conspiracy and cheating to the tune of N66million,  was contrary to Section 320(a) and punishable under Section 322 of the Penal Code Cap 102 Laws of Borno State.” According to petition by Ali Tijjani, CEO/Managing Director of AMTMAT Global Ventures against Complete Care and Aids Foundation, a non-governmental organisation (NGO), run by the defendants. The petitioner alleged that, on September 7, 2018, Complete Care and Aids Foundation awarded his company a contract to supply it processed maize grain, referred to as “biski” in native language, worth N15million, which the second defendant, Wakil received on behalf of Complete Care and Aid Foundation upon delivery. According to Tijjani, his company upon the request of the defendants equally process and funded their trip to Morocco to the tune of N51million, a cost they refused to defray. Count two of the charge reads: “That you Tahiru Saidu Daura, while being a programme manager of Complete Care and Aid Foundation, and Aisha Wakil, being the CEO of Complete Care and Aid Foundation on the 7th September 2018, in Maiduguri within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, dishonestly induce Ali Tijjani, the CEO and alter ego of AMTMAT Global Ventures to deliver to you, processed maize grains (biski), valued at N15,000,000.00 (Fifteen Million Naira) which you are yet to pay and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 320(a) and punishable under Section 322 of the Penal Code Cap 102 Laws of Borno State.” The defendants pleaded not guilty to all the charges, upon which prosecution counsel, Fatsuma Muhammad applied for a trial date and the remand of the defendants in the custody of Nigerian Correctional Centre (NCS), pending the determination of the case. The prosecution counsel, Fatsuma Muhammad, applied for a trial date and for the accused persons to be remanded at the Nigerian Correctional Centre (NCS), Maiduguri, pending the determination of the case. Counsel to the defendants, H. Waziri and B.G Zanna, made oral bail applications for the defendants, on the ground that the EFCC had earlier granted them administrative bail. Justice Kumaliya granted the duo bail in the sum of N30 million with two sureties in like sum. The judge said one of the sureties, “must be someone at the level of a permanent secretary in the civil service, who owns a landed property in Maiduguri GRA, and must submit the title document of the property to the registry of the court.” The judge said the bail will be revoked “on the failure of the defendants to attend the trial.” The matter was adjourned until January 13, 2020 for the commencement of trial. The judge further declared that the bail will be revoked on the failure of the defendants to attend the trial. Police vs IPOB: Oraifite community bans masquerade, cult groups