The Federal Government has received commendations from Edo State Government for the commitment towards fixing the perennial erosion problem in Ekpoma, Esan West Local Government Area of Edo State. Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki gave the commendation when he received in audience a team of officers of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing led by the Director Highway Design Road for the South South Zone, Engr. Oluropo Oyetade who paid him a courtesy visit in his office. Over 100m Nigerians threathened by desertification, deforestation, erosion – Ohakim Obaseki pledged to give the required support and cooperation to the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing as it sets to commence and deliver the erosion control project at the Ekpoma stretch of the dual carriageway from Obajana to Benin City. Speaking further, he assured that his government would help to sensitize the people on structures to be demolished and compensated for the smooth take-off and completion of the erosion control project in Ekpoma. The Governor stressed the need for the Federal Government to fix the bad portions of arterial roads within and outside Edo State because of their social economic importance. Some of the arterial roads among others identified by Governor Obaseki to be rehabilitated for easy flow of traffic are: Okene to Benin, Sapele – Port Harcourt, Port Harcourt – Onitsha, Agbo –Okene roads. Speaking earlier, Engr. Oluropo Oyetade  said that the purpose of their visit was to brief the Executive Governor of Edo State the plan of the Ministry to fix the perennial erosion problem at the Ekpoma axis of the Obajana –Benin dual carriage way and inspect the site of the  project Engr Oyetade also sought for the support and cooperation of the Edo State Government in sensitizing the people on structures that would be demolished and compensated for the smooth execution of the erosion control challenge. Engineer Oyetade assured the governor that frantic efforts were being made by the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing to fix the failed portions of on the Obajana – Benin City dual carriage way for free flow of traffic during the 2019 yuletide. He also assured that at least one alignment of the four sections dual carriage way would be delivered by the Federal Government on or before June 2020.