Lagos – A 19-year-old house maid (names  withheld) from the Republic of  Benin has been  arrested by the police in Lagos  for  attempting to kill a 93-year-old woman. She  was  alleged to have added  a substance suspected to be sniper into Madam Christiana Ogunshina’s tea in their Mende-Maryland residence  with a view to killing the nonagenarian. The  spokesman of the Lagos  State Police  Command, DSP Bala Elkana,  confirmed the arrest of the foreigner  on Tuesday. Border closure not about smuggling petroleum or rice but … – Sanusi He said that the  suspect  was working  for the daughter of the old woman before the incident happened . Elkana said that  the incident happened to Madam Ogunshina last  Saturday at 11, Ajayi St., Mende Maryland in Lagos State where she was living with her daughter. Border closure not about smuggling petroleum or rice but … – Sanusi He said that whenever the old woman’s daughter went to work, she  would request her maid to stay with her mother upstairs pending her return. The police  image-maker said that last  Saturday, the maid went upstairs as usual. The PPRO said that while the suspect was seated, the old woman  prepared her morning tea, closed the cup for some minutes and left for her room. Elkana said that as soon as the old  woman  left the sitting room, the suspect allegedly opened the cup  containing the tea and  added the substance. Elkana added that the suspect, however,  did not know  that the old woman’s personal maid  who was working in the kitchen came to the sitting room and saw the suspect  adding the substance into the tea. He said that  the old woman’s maid reported what she saw to her madam, while the suspect left  the upstairs to their apartment downstairs to wash clothes. The PPRO said that   the old woman then ordered  her personal maid to empty the cup of its content and wash the cup. He said that after the maid had emptied the cup,  she discovered  some substances at the bottom of the cup, which she showed to her madam. The spokesman said that the  old woman  invited her eldest son, one Abayomi Ayobami who perceived the content in the cup and suspected it to be a  poisonous substance. The PPRO said, “Abayomi Ayobami reported the case at the Anthony Police Station at about 1p.m. on Saturday. “The police visited, and searched the house. They arrested the suspect as well as took away  the empty cup that contained the poisoned tea before it was poured away to  their  station. “The suspect confessed to the offence. “She alleged that  the old woman was always shouting at her and that she was tired of her tantrums, so she decided to poison her that day.” (NAN)