The killing of Nnaemeka Ferdinand Nnaji, a bright star and potential future leader on Sunday December 8, 2019 by some people said to be murderous bandits along Abaji-Abuja road have left many hearts bruised beyond repair as tears have been flowing uncontrollably from the eyes of his parents, siblings and friends. My friend and brother, Nnaemeka Ferdinand Nnaji, a vibrant, enthusiastic and jolly good fellow left Abuja on Wednesday December 4, 2019 and had a smooth ride down to Enugu and other parts of East. He had quality time with his parents, brothers and sisters at Amechi, Awkunanaw in Enugu South LGA of Enugu state and looked forward to a safe return to his lovely wife and kids on Sunday 8th of December 2019. According to his WhatsApp status, he was last seen at 17:20pm, killed by the savagery hoodlums and murderers called armed bandits and kidnappers. These satanic elements that paraded themselves in military uniforms and other security outfits were said to have suddenly made some unruly announcements along Kwali axis of the Abaji-Abuja express-way by firing at oncoming vehicles including the Peugeot 406 our aspiring fellow was seated in and the rest is what have kept us in mourning mood since December 9, 2019 when the news rudely reached us that he was among the victims of such heinous attack. We all resorted to prayers only for his body to be identified later, in the morgue of the University of Abuja Specialist Hospital, Gwagwalada, Abuja. What a mess? Since that Sunday when the dastardly incident occurred, we have found little or no reason to continue to live as the sunshine in our lives have been away by men in Nigeria’s military uniforms whether they are real soldiers or bandits/kidnappers masquerading as military persons. Though we are deeply pained and at the brink of losing our faith, I know God is still the God of Love. My dear brother, our prayer is that your blood and those of other Nigerians that were wasted with your lives cut short by these messengers of Satan on Sunday, December 8, 2019, would always cry for justice. In Bob Marley’s Redemption Song, he said, ‘’How long shall they kill our prophets, while we stand aside and look. Yes, some say it’s just a part of it, we’ve got to fulfill the book.’’ It is unfortunate that in this part of the world and in this age and time, we live on borrowed terms. But let me deviate a bit to say that what is happening in Nigeria currently is quite shameful and unacceptable whether you are in government or outside it. Let it be condemned by all men and women of goodwill that fear the Lord that the lives of Nigerians are being wasted every minute like cheap materials by hoodlums that brandish themselves with reckless abandon and those voted or selected into positions of authority are powerless to do something to stop the trend. The primary responsibility of any government is the protection of lives and property as enshrined in the constitution of any country which ours is not an exception. Our roads have not only become death traps for commuters but dead spots because of the rising crime rate in virtually all parts of the country. From East to North, from South to West no one is spared. Beyond the rhetoric, this should serve as wake-up call for governments at all levels, from Local Government, State Government and ultimately Federal Government to rise to the challenge and do what they have been elected and selected to do. I can bet that the rising case of attacks and the veracity of reoccurrence along Abuja–Lokoja and Okene axis have escalated after our recent elections. This is a litmus test and assignment for the government of the day. But then who will bail the cat? Aside the issue of safety and worthiness of our roads, much needs to be done in terms of healthcare. How functional are the hospitals? I can imagine the pain my brother Nnaemeka went through having sustained gun shots on both his hands and legs. Who knows if he would have been saved by a rapid response from the Road safety or our other Health and emergency units, mobile ambulances equipped with proper kits? I can’t imagine how he must have fought, crying, calling on nurses and whoever was around to save him. What more can I do but to say, Nna, Agwo-Nnaji, Omeihukwu 2, Crystagoz as fondly called by friends and associates, while it is hard to bid you farewell. God is our consolation Adieu. Rest on brother till we meet to part no more.