Justice Okon Abang of the Federal High Court Abuja has refused the application by the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu to withdraw the criminal charge against an Anambra state monarch, Peter Anaukwu Uyanwa. However, the court ordered that traditional ruler and nine others charged along with him should be arraigned December 6. The nine others are Chief Walter Okafor, Chief Boniface Kamuche, Mr. Michael Eziachalla, Chief Christian Nwadiuto, Godwin Anigbata, Mr. Ezekiel Aniekwe, Chief Peter Mmonife, Agu Uzodigwe and Comrade Augustine Maduka. The defendants who were to be arraigned last Friday on 12 -count charge in the suit marked FHC/ABJ/CR/255/2019 filed on October 16 by the inspector general of police on behalf of the federal government evaded their arraignment. They were alleged to have conspired to breach the peace in Ukwulu community. Their offences also include perjury and fabrication of evidence. But, a mild drama ensued on Friday when the matter was called and the defendants were not in court. The prosecutor, Cosmos Anyanwu told the court that the inspector general has instructed him to withdraw the suit. Defence counsel, Chief Ikenna Egbuna (SAN) did not oppose the withdrawal of the suit, adding however, that the defendants were absent in court because the prosecutor had informed him that he was asked to withdraw the matter. The nominal complainant who was in court, Prince Chinedu Tagbo, objected to the move, informing the court that he has petitioned the inspector general of police requesting that Anyanwu be prevented from handling the case, accusing the prosecuting counsel of extortion. Read Also: Association harps on cyber security competence Tagbo handed the judge documents to buttress his complaint, revealing that after the prosecutor filed the charge against the monarch and the nine others, he demanded for N5 million as legal fees without which the suit will be withdrawn. He said as a victim of the crime, he seeks refuge under the protection of the court and further chronicled how Anyanwu had tried to frustrate service on the defendants even after collecting N100, 000 for preparation and filing of the suit. The nominal complainant stated that rather than attend the court, the defendants were celebrating in the village because they were told that the matter has been withdrawn and they have been discharged by the presiding judge, while Anyanwu is persuading him to accept the N20 million offered by the defendants to settle the matter out of court. In a brief ruling, the visibly angry Justice Abang struck out the motion seeking to withdraw the charge and also refused to acquit the defendants. The court ordered the defendants to be arraigned and granted the nominal complainant leave of court to bring any counsel of his choice for prosecution and ordered the defendants counsel, Chief Ikenna Egbuna (SAN) to produce the defendants on December 6 for arraignment or face severe consequences.