The Ekiti State governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi has been accused of being influenced by his 2023 presidential or vice presidential to keep quiet and watch herdsmen attack a community in the state. A group, Save The Nation Movement (STNM) who made the allegation in a statement by its national secretary, Comrade Stevens Chilaka on Thursday in Abuja, expressed worries over the governor’s alleged silence on the persistent attacks and subsequent take-over of the community in the state by suspected Fulani herdsmen. Residents of Orin Ekiti, Ido/Osi Local Government Area of the state had taken to the streets to protest the forceful takeover of their lands by suspected herdsmen. The people had accused the herdsmen of destroying their crops worth over N50 million in farms belonging to over 70 farmers and hoisting of flags on the lands. “The governor is sacrificing Ekiti people for his ambition to be either president or vice president in 2023, hence his decision to keep silent over the take-over of Orin Ekiti farm settlement by armed herdsmen and hoisting of flag there,” the group claimed. It said Fayemi’s failure to react on the matter showed that he was living up to his “pre-election agreement of ceding lands in Ekiti State to Fulani herdsmen so as to remain a good and willing boy to the Presidency Cabal towards the 2023 presidential election.” It added that it was sad that “Fulani herdsmen operating with AK47 were even imposing curfew in a community in Ekiti State, and the governor is carrying on as if all was well.” The group recalled that during his electioneering campaign in 2018, Fayemi had said that killings by Fulani herdsmen would only stop if lands were provided for the herdsmen as their permanent settlements. “Today, Fayemi’s silence on the take-over of lands in Orin-Ekiti by Fulani herdsmen and other atrocities being committed by them across the state has lend credence to claim by the PDP,” the group said. “In April this year, suspected herders killed two persons and injured three others while many were sent packing from their residences in Iyemero-Ekiti, Ikole Local Government Area of Ekiti State. “In June this year, suspected herdsmen macheted a hunter, Emmanuel Ilori to death in Orin Ekiti, he was killed at midnight while hunting games. The tragedy happened barely 24 hours after a lady was murdered in Ise Ekiti. “Adeniyi Ajayi, who was in the bush when Ilori was killed had explained that they met the herdsmen numbering about 30 in an abandoned piggery in the town and when they attempted to inquire what they were doing in the farm, the herdsmen opened fire on them and that resulted in the death of Mr Ilori. “In all these, Governor Fayemi has done nothing, ostensibly because he does not want to offend the powers that be so as not to jeopardise his ambition to either be President or Vice Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in 2023,” STNM said.