The Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) has said that  the United States has been using the lies to judge Nigeria. The Muslins group in a statement signed on Tuesday by Ishaq Akintola, MURIC’s director,  they are not bothered by the US latest ranking of Nigeria as religiously biased. The group also asked has the US ever seen anything good about Nigeria? Saying: ‘some foreign powers are always eager to discredit developing nations. It is a game mastered by imperialists. We can see the signs.’ Nemanja Matic: Atletico Madrid target Man Utd midfielder MURIC in the statement alleged that  “CAN has only manifested its naivety in modern international politics. The US has thrown religious persecution as a bait. Unfortunately CAN has swallowed it, hook, line and sinker,” The group said: ‘We are not bothered by the US latest ranking of Nigeria as religiously biased. Has the US ever seen anything good about our country? Some foreign powers are always eager to discredit developing nations. It is a game mastered by imperialists. We can see the signs,” it said. “America should do some introspection. Those who claim to be the champion of democracy in the world cannot in good conscience, beat their chests and say, ‘We have been fair to all’. “America complains to Nigeria that Christians are being killed even when it is well known that Muslims are the greatest victims of the killings. America invited former CAN president to address congress a few years ago. But no Muslim leader has ever been invited to the same platform. Yet America has been using the lies told before congress to judge our country. Is this fair? “Muslims of Southern Nigeria have been complaining of persecution for decades but America turned its deaf ears. America pretends nothing is happening to Nigerian Muslims even when the Muslim girl child is locked out of school over an ordinary headscarf which is even allowed in US schools.” “CAN has only manifested its naivety in modern international politics. The US has thrown religious persecution as a bait. Unfortunately CAN has swallowed it, hook, line and sinker,” it said. “Our message to CAN is this, allow America to set fire to your country and we can assure you that it is not the Muslims alone who will face turmoil. Whether to avoid foreign interference in your country and live in peace with your Muslim neighbours while you watch your children and grandchildren play peacefully in the garden or to open the doors wide for an army of occupation which will bring general pandemonium, the choice is yours. “CAN should remember that religion or no religion, America’s national interest is America’s priority. America has no permanent friends. Neither should anyone blame Americans for loving their own country. The blame goes to those who open the doors of their country for foreign forces to support them in eliminating or, at least, in undermining their perceived rivals or oppressors.” “We charge compatriots to verify claims being made by either the US or CAN. We invite all Nigerians to manifest the well known African hospitality to every American or Western citizen as those individuals do not represent their countries’ tortuous diplomacy. We call on Muslims to continue to exhibit love and care for their Christian compatriots,” it said.