The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadiq Abubakar, has reiterated his commitment to the provision of an enabling environment and improved personnel welfare package to encourage professionalism and effective service delivery. Abubakar made this known at the inauguration of the newly constructed housing units at the 105 Composite Group of the Nigeria Air Force (NAF) at the weekend in Maiduguri. He disclosed that the service has constructed 30 flats of houses for officers, airmen and personnel as part of efforts to improve the living standard of its personnel. Abubakar said that the service has initiated viable projects such as provision of accommodation for the 105 composite commander, a mess and multi-purpose hanger, adding that the projects were at various stages of completion, explaining that the service has recorded modest achievements in infrastructure development in its formations in the country. “This is quite necessary so as to better position the personnel for effective performance of their duties in defending the nation from the myriads of security challenges that threaten the very essence of our nationhood. “Accordingly, it is the commitment of this administration to create enabling environment through the provision of necessary infrastructure and other welfare packages for personnel in operational areas to serve as motivation while accomplishing their assigned tasks. Read Also: Fatal accident on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway kills 5, many injured “This administration is focused on ensuring that its personnel are highly motivated and take pride in their service to the Nation. ”I therefore, urge all our officers and men to embrace the highest level of professionalism and regimentation in their daily conducts so as to assure Nigerians of our unflinching commitment to the protection of the Nation,’’ he said. According to him, the service prioritises capacity development of its personnel in view of the importance of the air task force to the operations in the north east and security of the country. Abubakar said that he is impressed by the daily air operations and the good results achieved so far in the missions, and called on the personnel to keep up the momentum. He stressed that the role of NAF is to provide aid to the civil authorities and the need to submit to the civil administration to ensure internal security.