The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) says the agency has put in place automation to prevent emergence of new debts by airlines. General Manager, Public Relations of NCAA, Mr. Samuel Adurogboye, who revealed this in Lagos on Sunday, said that airlines indebtedness to NCAA is more than N10 billion. Adurogboye said that old debts owed by airlines were defrayed little by little by way of ensuring that the defaulters show evidence of payment before services are rendered. The debts are accrued from the five per cent ticket and cargo sales charges collected by the airlines in trust for the regulators. The ticket sales charge is a charge collected for the agencies by the airlines in trust, to be remitted to government coffers in order to avoid collection before flight and creating confusion, delays and missed flight. According to him, airlines indebtedness to NCAA is over N10 billion. “However, we have put up a system that prevents emergence of new debts via the automation. “The old debts are being defrays little by little by way of ensuring that the defaulters shows evidence of payment before services are rendered. “We applied appropriate sanctions whenever there is an infraction as a deterrent and to prevent a re-occurrence. NCAA is working hard to ensure that the airlines are operating safely in and out of our airspace,” he stated. Read Also: Abducted Adamawa police officer regains freedom Adurogboye said the Nigerian travel agencies were being controlled through registration and the process is ongoing, adding that the main source of revenue for the agency remains the internally generated income from the five per cent on ticket sales charge and five per cent cargo sales charges. The NCAA spokesman said NCAA controls passengers’ complaints in line with the provision of the Nig. CARs and that domestic airlines were insured overseas, adding that this is largely because of the heavy capital involved. Adurogboye added that Nigerian insurance provides the local content. He said that NCAA still sees to it that airlines were properly and adequately insured, so that they would be in position to fulfil their part of the bargain in the event of an occurrence. “NCAA has been at the fore front and also an advocate of training and retraining as a way out of manpower and aging workforce staring us in the face,” Adurogboye added. However, when contacted for response to the NCAA’s alleged N10 billion indebtedness by the airlines, the President of the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), Capt. Nogie Meggison, could not immediately respond to calls and text messages sent to him. (NAN)