The University of Abuja on Monday announced the dismissal of two professors and the demotion of two others over misconduct. A statement by the university’s Head of Information and Public Relations, Dr Habib Yakoob, said that the university took the decision “after due diligence and after considering reports and recommendations from the Disciplinary Committee”. READ ALSO:  Abuja varsity soon to make study of foreign languages compulsory – VC Those dismissed included Prof. Adeniji Abiodun of the Department of Animal Science, Faculty of Agriculture, and Prof. Agaptus Orji of the Department of Science and Environmental Education, Faculty of Education. The demoted lecturers included Dr Robert Dajal of the Department of Science and Environmental Education, Faculty of Education, and Mr Gana Sunday of the Department of Animal Science, Faculty of Agriculture. “Prof. Abiodun was dismissed over inappropriate relationship with a female student, which is a misconduct of ‘scandalous and disgraceful nature,’ as provided in Section 16, subsection 3(c) of the University of Abuja Conditions of Service for Senior Staff (1999). “Prof. Abiodun’s appointment was also terminated for falsification of academic records and the aiding and abetting of examination malpractices in line with Section 7, Subsections 1b(ii) &(v) of the University of Abuja Conditions of Service for Senior Staff (1999). “Prof. Orji’s appointment was terminated for falsification of academic records, aiding and abetting of examination malpractices, in line with Section 7, Subsections 1b(ii)&(v) of the University of Abuja Conditions of Service for Senior Staff (1999). “Orji was also dismissed for corruption and dishonesty, in line with Section 7, Subsections 1b (iv) of the University of Abuja Condition of Service for Senior Staff (1999). “Dr Dajal was demoted by a rank, from Associate Professor to Senior Lecturer, while Mr Gana was demoted by two ranks – from Lecturer 1 to Assistant Lecturer – for their complicity in various acts of misconduct inimical to the good image of the University,” the statement added. According to the statement, the disciplinary actions against the lecturers were taken at the university council’s 85th Regular Meeting held on 11th and 12th December, 2019, where recommendations by the disciplinary committee were considered. It restated the institution’s commitment to high moral standards and determination to take appropriate disciplinary measures against any act of misconduct perpetrated by its staff or students, in the interest of justice and educational development.