Emre Can looks increasingly more likely to leave Juventus in the January transfer window after being overlooked once again by Maurizio Sarri, who left the German on the bench for the 3-1 victory over Udinese. The former Liverpool man’s future in Turin had already looked bleak after Sarri made the decision not to include him in the club’s Champions League squad, sparking frustration from a man who had allegedly been given assurances over his role in the team. READ ALSO: Fenerbahce plots January loan move for Henry Can stated at the time: “It was very shocking for me because last week I was told and promised something else. Yesterday I got a call from the coach, in which he told me in less than a minute and without explanation that I was not in the squad. “I cannot explain it, nobody has given me a reason until now. I and my agent had talks with other clubs, Paris [Saint-Germain] as well. After discussions with Juventus, we decided to stay with the club. A condition was to play in the Champions League, and that was what I was promised. “Yesterday it was said – one day after the transfer period ended that I’m not in. It just makes me angry how they’ve dealt with me. I’ll deal with the consequences when I get back and talk to the club. I want, and I have, to play in the Champions League. An untimely injury to fellow German Sami Khedira looked to have handed Can a lifeline at least in domestic competition but Sarri has taken to using Rodrigo Bentancur and Adrien Rabiot in the centre of midfield instead. It is understood that the Italian coach’s ‘Sarriball’ methods are lost on Can, who has struggled to understand the tactical concepts put forward by the former Chelsea boss. As such, it is likely that Juve will soon find themselves dealing with a transfer request. A potential move to PSG could well be off the table following Idrissa Gueye and Ander Herrera’s summer arrivals, although links to Manchester United and other top clubs suggest there will be interest in January. Indeed, Can could leave on an initial loan deal with an option to buy in the summer, even if Juve would prefer to hold on to the wantaway midfielder until the end of the season. Can has made no secret of his desire to play regular first-team football, however, and agitating for a winter switch would likely see the Bianconeri buckle as they look to maintain focus amid Serie A and Champions League campaigns.