Awka–   Mr. Ifeanyi Ejiofor, the lawyer to the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has been  declared wanted by police over the killing of two police officers during the IPOB /Police clash at Oraifite in Ekwusigo local government area of the state on Monday. The Anambra State police command  Public Relations Officer, PPRO, Mr. Haruna Mohammed  in a statement on Monday had said  that members of IPOB in Oraifite killed two police officers when a team of security men went to arrest Ejiofor over complaint of abduction leveled against him and set ablaze a vehicle belonging to the police command. The Anambra State Commissioner of Police, Mr. John Abang said: “We implore law abiding Nigerians from North, South East or West who have information about this man to report to the nearest police station.  “He is a member of the proscribed IPOB, and he is wanted in connection with the killing of two police men. We implore anyone who has information on him to report to us immediately.” Textile, Garment industry can generate 3.5m jobs when revived — Issa Aremu The Police command in Anambra have confirmed the death of two police officers, allegedly attacked and shot by suspected members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) at Oraifite in Ekwusigo council area of the state. The command’s spokesman, Mr Haruna Mohammed, disclosed this in a statement in Awka on Monday. Part of the statement read, “on the 2/12/2019 at about 11:30 am, there was a formal complaint against one Barr. Ifeanyi Ejiofor, a member of the proscribed IPOB in Oraifite on alleged case of abduction, assault occasioning harm and malicious damage to property. “Following the report, police patrol teams, led by the Area Commander, Oraifite, Mr Oliver Abbey, mobilised and rushed to the scene in order to arrest the suspect, who declined police invitation. “However, as soon as police arrived at the house, armed men, suspected to be IPOB members, descended on the police, set ablaze one patrol vehicle and attacked them with rifles and machetes.” Mohammed stated that two police officers, whose identities were being withheld, were killed by the IPOB members, while others received machete cuts. He said that the injured operstives were taken to a hospital for medical attention. “Consequently, the command deployed reinforcements from the state headquarters, comprising PMF, Special Anti-Robbery Squad and Special Anti-Cult Units, in conjunction with the army and other sister agencies. “The area has been cordoned-off in order to fish out the culprits, while joint patrol are still ongoing in the town to prevent further breakdown of law and order,” Mohammed added. He further noted that some arrests were made and that the Commissioner of Police, Mr John Abang, had visited the scene and vowed to bring the perpetrators of the dastardly act to justice.