He was the cynosure of the eyes when he came 4th at the season 5 edition of the MTN Project West Africa where he displayed his unique skills in singing and stage performance. Born Oyinkasade Dare Akande is one of Nigeria’s popular RNB whose distinctive style of music differs him from others. Known for his fusion of Yoruba and English in his music, Oyinkanade is not leaving any stone unturned towards becoming a better performer and entertainer; in this chat with  MUTIAT ALLI, he tells us more about his music, plans for the year, work, and other sundry issues With your experience as an artiste that broke from the norm, why do you think Musicians fail? I think basically a lot of musicians out there fail because a lot of them don’t really discover themselves, Secondly it’s either you talented or not you can’t force it, you don’t have to do it because a few friends do it. Lastly the team is everything. Lot of musicians don’t have the right team, who can go the extra mile for them, correct them when they are going wrong and impact in their music. It’s crazy, I have worked with a lot of people in the past and I think it opened my eyes to the fact that the team you have can either make or kill the artiste. When you started this professionally after the music reality TV show, how did you carve a niche for yourself and what were the goals you had set for yourself at that time? After the reality TV show, I put into work all the things I learnt at the academy because it was there I learnt I could do Fuji easily with a blend of my RnB, blending both genres together defined who Oyinkanade was. My goals basically were Global Domination. I think to a point we have been able to cut across, it has not been easy, but I thank God. Did you have a weakness at that time that stared at you in the face when you kicked off? It’s normal for a human being to have weakness, you can’t be 100 percent but for me at that time when I started was self confidence which I have outgrown right now. You mentioned the fact that you are a song writer and how long does it take you to come up with a song? Yes I write songs, it’s very easy for me to write songs now. I could just hear the beat and I create something instantly, I trained myself like that because it makes you versatile as a musician and more importantly I think it’s also not a bad idea if musicians get song writers to write for them. Tell us a few things about Oyinkanade that a lot of people don’t know? I studied Music as a course at Obafemi Awolowo University Ile-Ife, I am a political scientist, I can play football very well, but man’s gotta shed off this weight lol, I have a good sense of humor and I can practically make people laugh with ease. Were there any other professions you were thinking of pursuing in, or were this like your childhood dream? It has always been music but sometimes I often thought about two being a politician or a footballer. I was confused but I think football was the way, I remember how much I loved soccer then. But obviously if I wasn’t an artiste or a musician I would be doing any of those. Let’s say you become a politician tomorrow what impact would you make? It depends on the mandate or power I have, honestly, I would like to ensure that various sectors in country actually walk the talk. It’s one thing for you to say, it’s another one for you to do, basically it’s not like the other countries a lot of people visit don’t have issues too but the system works, if I walk the talk, then system should function too. What standard or criteria does someone out there who wants or you want to work with meet? A good sound, Once the sound is right, Holla at me, I will jump on it and kill it.