…Says clubbing, night life allowed in Abuja Mathew Dadiya, Abuja The Minister of Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Mohammed Bello has defended demolition of controversial Caramelo night club located at Utako district in Abuja by the authorities. The Federal Capital Territory Development Authority (FCDA) through its Department of Development Control (DDC) had on Monday demolished the controversial Caramelo Lounge, a popular strip club, located at No 630, TOS Benson Crescent, Utako District Abuja,  for allegedly contravening the FCT land use regulations. Bello while responding to a question after the Federal Executive Council on Wednesday at the Villa on why the building was not confiscated rather than demolished, said that the action taken was as a last resort following a breach by the original owner. The FCDA authorities also revoked the Certificate-of-Occupancy (C-of-O) issued on the plot. He explained that the the land that housed the demolished strip club, has now become government property. The FEC meeting was presided over by the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbanjo, Thursday night, Bello noted that while Abuja is a city for everyone nevertheless, the law had to take its course and the government is determined to follow the master plan in all its dealings. He explained that everything in Abuja was being governed by laws, rules and regulations through the Abuja Master Plan and any violation of the plan would attract sanctions from relevant authorities. According to him, the master plan makes provisions for all activities including night clubs, saying that it does not allow a person to convert a building meant for a clinic into a night club. “I’m quite interested also with the way I see the feedback from the wider community. ”I have had cause to discuss with many of your colleagues where many people felt that this minister has not been demolishing. ”As a matter of fact `he is not demolishing so he is not working’ – it is due process, my brother. “If you check the record you will be surprised how long it took to reach that painful decision of having to demolish that (property). “As a matter of fact that all the regulations were there – that property is no longer owned, it has been reverted to government because it is very clear, check any C-of-O, you will see the conditions. “If there is a flagrant abuse and there are no efforts to correct that abuse, it reverts back to government. “But I want you to be rest assured that for every demolition you see maybe a hundred were saved. The minister urged Nigerians to ”go about their normal business in the city but should follow the law. The authorities were said to have given a notice before the demolition took place. But the Managing Director of the club, Maxwell Eze, had lamented that the notice was given on Friday with a 21-day notice which was reduced to 48hrs. Exes argued that they were not given enough time to remove any valuables before the demolition. He added that N500 million worth of equipment had been lost in the demolition which has rendered a direct staff strength of 105 unemployed.