Ukpono Ukpong, Abuja As usual, this month Korean Cultural Centre Nigeria (KCCN) as part of its tradition of screening K-movies Bi-Monthly during the Korean Culture Day featured a thrilling aspect of Korean culture – Korean traditional ballet. Korean movie lovers and enthusiasts thronged in as the KCCN screened a movie titled; ‘Shim Chung’ using SAC on Screen, a technology that delivers various art genres that come on the stage at SAC such as opera, ballet, classical music, theatre, contemporary dance, and visual arts exhibitions. Shim Chung is a 15th century Korean folk tale about a filial daughter who lived in a small town with her blind father who had just lost his wife. Her father visited a temple one day and was told by a monk that his blindness could be cured in exchange for 300 sacks of rice. The farmer agreed to supply the sacks, but later realized that he was not able to do so. Meanwhile, at that time, a group of sailors were attacked by the God of the Sea they had angered and the only way to appease the god was to sacrifice a young girl to which Shim Chong agreed to be the sacrificial offering if the sailors would provide the sacks of rice her father needed for his sight to be restored. Immediately the farmer found out about the deal, he tried to stop Shim Chong although he could not succeed. Shim Chong was taken to the sea called ‘In-dang-soo’ in the sailors’ ship and thrown overboard and calm returned immediately. Shim Chong sinks to the bottom of the sea and met the god of the Sea. The god who had been awaiting her arrival in his realm, praised her for her filial piety. In the underwater world, Shim Chong also met her deceased mother. Shim Chong sent back to the upper world by the god of the Sea and was seen floating on the surface inside a giant orchid and a group of fishermen discovered the orchid and took it to the king who rules the land. After the king opened the orchid, he found Shim Chung and fell in love with her and married her afterwards. Due to the love she had for the father, Shim Chong, could not take her mind off her father who at the time was missing. It turns out he had found a new woman, although the woman took advantage of his blind condition and cheated him, took all the money that Shim Chong had asked from the sailors. However, the king due to the love he had for Shim Chong, helped to find her father by organizing a feast for all blind people in his kingdom. When Shim Chong recognized her father at the feast, he miraculously regains his eyesight. And they lived happily after.