Our correspondent Kano State commissioner for information, youth and culture, Mallam Mohammed Garba was on Monday in Abuja honoured with the prestigious Lifetime Achievements Award by the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Mallam Garba, himself, a former national president of NUJ, was honoured alongside other men and women that the Union said have achieved a lot in the society and therefore deserve public applause. The event took place at the Sheraton Hotel, Abuja on the occasion of the Union’s 2019 Press Freedom Awards and Dinner. A graduate of History/Political Science and Masters Degree on Development Studies from Bayero University, Kano, the commissioner was born on 25th November, 1964 at Yakasai Quarters in Kano Municipal Council of Kano state. The former NUJ President is a seasoned journalist with huge experience that spans several decades. He started his career as a reporter at Triumph Publishing Company and later served as Sub-Editor, Chief Sub-Editor, Group News Editor, Deputy Editor as well as member of Editorial Board of many National Newspapers. Mohammad Garba began active union activity as Chairman of his Chapel-The Triumph, under the Nigeria Union of Journalists, rising to the position of the Union’s National President. He also served as two-time President, Federation of African Union of Journalists (FAC). He has held various appointive and political positions including but not limited to, Press Secretary to the Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives in 1993 and Press Secretary to the Deputy Governor of Kano State in 1999. He at various times was at the International Institute of Journalism, the Rexton, Virginia, USA where he obtained Professional Diploma in Political and Economic Journalism and University of Ibadan where he acquired Professional Certificate on Election Coverage and Political Analysis. Mohammed Garba was also at the Administrative College of Nigeria, Topo, Badagary, Lagos, obtaining Certificate in Administrative Process and Procedures.