 Governor Umaru Al-Makura of Nasarawa state on Friday presented the staff of office to the 17th Emir of Lafia Emirate, Justice Sidi Bage Muhammad I.  Justice Muhammad I was selected by kingmakers of the Lafia Emirate on March 26, following the demise of the 16th Emir, Isa Mustapha Agwai on January 10.  While presenting the staff of office, Gov. Al-Makura, said the emergence of the new emir was a welcome development to the people of the emirate given his track record in the temple of justice.  He expressed confidence in the ability of the emir to engender peace, justice and equity in his domain, stating that his administration had incorporated the traditional rulers into the governance of the state, especially in peace building, attesting that their incorporation had yielded tremendous results.  ‘‘The vast background, training, experience and exposure of our traditional rulers have contributed immensely to the maintenance of peace and harmonious co-existence amongst the people,’’ he said.  The governor attributed the relative peace in the state within the last few years to the support of the traditional institutions and also extolled the virtues of the late emir, saying that the emirate enjoyed peace and witnessed unprecedented development during his reign.  He prayed God to grant the new emir sound health, wisdom and foresight in the task of superintending over the affairs of the emirate.  The new emir in his vote of thanks, said the presentation of the staff of office was an honour done to the people of the emirate and urged the people of the emirate to sustain the peace and harmonious co-existence that the late emir exemplified.  According to him, the Lafia emirate was unique as all the tribes were inter-related by blood and ancestry and therefore, promised to consolidate on the peace building efforts of the late emir to engender rapid socio-economic development of the emirate.  The ceremony was witnessed by Gov. Abubakar Bello of Bauchi state, Deputy governors of Benue and Kano states and notable traditional rulers across the country led by Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III. Others are the Shehu of Borno, Alhaji Kyari El-Kanemi, Tor Tiv, Prof. James Ayatse and the Gbom Gwom Jos, Dr. Buba Jacob Gyang among others.  Also present were the acting Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Mohammed, former Chief Justice, Justice Alfa Belgore and the President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Zainab Bulkachua. x Justice Muhammad I was selected by kingmakers of the Lafia Emirate on March 26, following the demise of the 16th Emir, Isa Mustapha Agwai on January 10. While presenting the staff of office, Gov. Al-Makura, said the emergence of the new emir was a welcome development to the people of the emirate given his track record in the temple of justice. He expressed confidence in the ability of the emir to engender peace, justice and equity in his domain, stating that his administration had incorporated the traditional rulers into the governance of the state, especially in peace building, attesting that their incorporation had yielded tremendous results. ‘‘The vast background, training, experience and exposure of our traditional rulers have contributed immensely to the maintenance of peace and harmonious co-existence amongst the people,’’ he said. The governor attributed the relative peace in the state within the last few years to the support of the traditional institutions and also extolled the virtues of the late emir, saying that the emirate enjoyed peace and witnessed unprecedented development during his reign. He prayed God to grant the new emir sound health, wisdom and foresight in the task of superintending over the affairs of the emirate. The new emir in his vote of thanks, said the presentation of the staff of office was an honour done to the people of the emirate and urged the people of the emirate to sustain the peace and harmonious co-existence that the late emir exemplified. According to him, the Lafia emirate was unique as all the tribes were inter-related by blood and ancestry and therefore, promised to consolidate on the peace building efforts of the late emir to engender rapid socio-economic development of the emirate. The ceremony was witnessed by Gov. Abubakar Bello of Bauchi state, Deputy governors of Benue and Kano states and notable traditional rulers across the country led by Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III. Others are the Shehu of Borno, Alhaji Kyari El-Kanemi, Tor Tiv, Prof. James Ayatse and the Gbom Gwom Jos, Dr. Buba Jacob Gyang among others. Also present were the acting Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Mohammed, former Chief Justice, Justice Alfa Belgore and the President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Zainab Bulkachua. 