The Abuja Electricity Distribution Plc (AEDC) on Friday launched the Meter Asset Providers (MAP) programme aimed at providing pre-paid electricity meters to 900, 000 customers. Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of AEDC, Ernest Mupwaya, said that the programme was targeting consumers in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Kogi, Niger and Nasarawa states. The electricity distribution company launched the MAP programme in Keffi Local Government Area of Nasarawa state on Friday. In his welcome address, Mupwaya said that the programme was another visible and bold effort of the AEDC to boost electricity supply, saying that the programme is aimed at closing the metering gap that exists in the electricity supply industry. “This current effort and several other intervention efforts on the part of DisCos like the AEDC speaks to the overall transformation agenda of our company. The issue of meter as you know, has been a front line issue in the industry because of the critical role it plays in the recovery of cost for the sector. “With this bold move courageously championed by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), the vexed issue of estimated billing will be adequately addressed,’’ he said. Mupwaya, who was represented by the Director, Corporate Services of AEDC, Odubiyi Abimbola commended the efforts of NERC for midwifing the process, noting that during the process of shortlisting vendors and approval, the NERC ensured that due diligence was observed and that all parties to the process were equitably represented and their interest adequately catered for. “The vendors selected for AEDC are MOJEC, TUBOR and MERON. While MOJEC will handle FCT and Kogi, TUBOR will operate in Niger while MERON will operate in Nasarawa state. “In all, 900, 000 customers have been scheduled for metering in AEDC franchise area in the first instance. Being a moving target, we are aware that the numbers may increase and as it does, the vendors will take them along. This project is expected to last for 36 months,’’ the AEDC boss said. Managing Director, MERON metering service provider, Emmanuel Ndubuisi in his remarks said there were enough meters available for distribution, adding that all that was required to acquire a new meter was for customers to go to the service provider closest to their homes and apply. Under the MAP scheme, a single phase meter costs N36, 981. 50 while a three phase meter is N67, 055. 85.