Ukpono Ukpong, Abuja The management and staff of the Ministry of Power, Works and Housing, has been urged to ensure the completion of projects the erstwhile Minister, Babatunde Fashola, could not finish before his exit on May 28 as minister. Fashola during the valedictory Meeting the Management Staff held in his honour and that of the Minister of State, Honourable Mustapha Shehuri, also enjoined them not to undermine President Mohammadu Buhari’s quest to deliver quality service to Nigerians in his ‘Next Level’ to improve and move the economy forward. While appealing for forgiveness from Staff whose toes were stepped on in the course of carrying out their duties, the Ministers appealed for extension of support and co-operation to anyone that will be appointed as the next Minister, stressing that government is a continuum. Fasola and Shehuri respectively took turns to commend the Permanent Secretary (Works and Housing Sector), Alhaji Mohammed Bukar, his counterpart, (Power Sector), Engr. Louis Edozien, the Management and Staff of the Ministry for the co-operation and support given to them during their tenure as Ministers. The various Directors and Heads of Agencies in the Ministry who delivered goodwill messages saluted Fashola and Shehuri for their team spirit, doggedness, resourcefulness and innovativeness in carrying out the mandate of the Ministry. Earlier, the Permanent Secretary Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing (Works and Housing), Alhaji Mohammed Bukar extoled both Fashola and Shehuri for superintending and piloting the affairs of the Ministry in the most efficient manner which ushered in an increase and unprecedented increase in the budgetary allocation of the Ministry. In his closing remark, Engr. Louis Edozien stated that the two Ministers had left legacies and indelible marks on the Ministry of Power, Works and Housing so difficult and challenging to surpass in the near future. He prayed that the Almighty God will continue to guide and strengthen them in their future endeavours.