Mathew Dadiya, Abuja The Presidency has for the second time refuted allegations making the rounds that the Federal Government has given a whopping sum of N100 billion to the Fulani socio-cultural group known as Miyetti Allah. The presidency described the news as “absolute falsehood.” Presidential Spokesman, Garba Shehu, who rebuffed the rumours on Friday, had on a national television denied the allegations two days ago. He stressed that the Presidency chose to speak on the issue because “it is dangerous for the public to ignore rumours aimed at inciting people against each other or against the government. “The people spreading such rumours should be helped to see the truth and participate in nation building, and not become crisis messengers”, he stated. “We note the statement by Ohaneze this morning, who expressed concern about an allegation that government gave N100 billion to Miyetti Allah for dubious reasons. “As I said on Channels TV, it is an absolute falsehood. The issue of money was never raised at any of the meetings between the representatives of government and Miyetti Allah. “If they had raised it, this government would have dismissed them as yet another dubious group, like the many making claims to be representing our trusting people but serving their own interests. “As the President has stated time and again, transparency and dialogue are essential for public enlightenment and nation building,” Shehu added. According to him, the Presidency’s position is that President Muhammadu Buhari’s government is equipped to address these issues. He noted that the security challenges faced by Nigeria today make the task of addressing the issues very urgent. He said that “Miyetti Allah, like any other trade, community, ethnic organisation or interest group is a legal stakeholder in our nation and should be respected. We maintain that the government needs to engage all stakeholders and seek partnership in building our country. “The activities of Miyetti Allah do not benefit selected ethnicities or Muslims only, but everyone. Long before petroleum became the core of Nigerian economy, agriculture was the main source of Nigerian wealth. Cattle, hides and skin were a major part of Nigerian export. “It is right to state that there are criminals among every group in Nigeria and in every country. There are criminals among the northern population as there are in the southern part of the country. It is not good to generalise blames. The government will engage each stakeholder and create dialogue between, and among, different groups.” He maintained that the Federal Government was pleased that Afenifere and Ohaneze Ndigbo found government’s insights worthy of attention even when they disagreed with “our view that they, as socio-cultural associations, represent same interests as Miyetti Allah, an association of Fulani herders.” Shehu added: “The point both socio-cultural groups missed, however, by insisting that government should not to talk to Miyetti Allah is the need to address and engage Nigeria’s ethnic, religious, cultural and economic plurality that was evident when General Yakubu Gowon introduced National Youth Service Corps, NYSC. The need to engage all groups of Nigeria is as much relevant today as it was then.”