…’Come out of your cocoon, do not be intimidated’, Dino charges Nigerians Tunde Opalana, Abuja Amidst seeming injustices, suppression of rule of law, economic oppression and political intimidation, Nigerian have been advised to boldly confront challenges by speaking out about their frustrations. Senator Dino Melaye representing Kogi West Senatorial District gave this charge on Sunday at the Gloryland Baptist Church, Lugbe, Abuja. He was in the church service to commemorate one year outing anniversary thanksgiving for Mr. Bode Gbadebo, deputy editor, Leadership Newspaper, who lost his wife, the late Mrs. Janet Gbadebo in May last year. Sen. Melaye, who said that the present socio- economic, political and security situations in the country are not totally irreversible, urged everyone to be abreast of the challenging situations by not keeping silent at the slightest provocation or intimidation. He warned that the challenges will remain unabated if the people refuse to talk, while he urged them to be ready to say the truth without minding whose ox is gored, adding that those who refuse to speak against evil are part of the evil. “The timid will continue to suffer in the hands of the tyrants if they refuse to say the truth. If you speak the truth, you die, if you don’t speak the truth, you die. Say the truth and die,” he charged. Sen. Melaye was reacting to a charge by the senior pastor of the church, Rev. Niyi Ogundipe that he should continue to be the defender of millions of defenceless Nigerians through legislative interventions and philanthropic gestures. The clergyman said the country needs many fearless, outspoken and courageous public figures like the senator to caution those in positions of power to drive this country out of economic woods. Rev. Ogundipe, who said the spate of insecurity in the country is disturbing as it affects all aspects of our national life called for a true restructuring of the polity and charged Sen. Melaye to use the goodwill of his office as a second term senator to rally parliamentary support for the restructuring of the country. He urged the senator not to be deterred by forces that want to silence him, but to be more committed to the fight for rights and privileges of common Nigerians.