Val Okara, Owerri Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Mohammed has advised judges in the country to write judgements for posterity and not for any other material consideration. Justice Mohammed described the late Justice Chukwudifu Oputa as a good example of what an ideal judge should be. He spoke while commissioning the ultra-modern high court complex built by the outgoing government of Governor Rochas Okorocha. Justice Mohammed, who was represented by a judge of the Supreme Court, Justice Amina Augie stated that “we thank God for the vision given to Gov. Rochas Okorocha that came to fruition in the realization of this wonderful court complex. “I doubt if there is any state in this country that has a high court complex as magnificent as this one. For this, we thank God for the governor of Imo state, we thank God for the judges of Imo state and we thank God for the people of Imo state who are going to benefit from this complex after the commissioning. “The complex is so comfortable that it will enable judges to relax and do their jobs well and give justice without fear, favour or ill will. At the same time, when you walk in and see the name of the complex, Justice Oputa Complex, he is one of the greatest jurists this country ever had. “Till today, if I am writing any judgement, I still rely on him because he was a great jurist. He was able to capture the law, he was able to explain it and was able to put it into clear words, “Justice Oputa was an example of what a judge should be. He never knew that one day a complex like this will be named after him. This is a message to all living judges, that we must all have posterity in mind. “It tells us that whatever we are writing, we should remember that one day, 100 years from now, one of your grand-children will be reading whatever rubbish you have written or reading something sublime you have written and they will proudly say, my grandfather or mother has done well by the kind of judgement he or she has written,” the chief justice stated.