Ukpono Ukpong, Abuja The leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has reiterated that workers right to peaceful protest and picketing is not negotiable, adding that no government or system under a democratic dispensation like Nigeria would deny workers such right. Addressing the workers on Monday in Abuja during a protest against the infringement of workers’ rights by the Minister of Labour and Employment, Sen. Chris Ngige, the NLC President, Ayuba Wabba, said the demonstration was to register the worker’s anger over the mandling of workers while on picketing line at the minister’s residence last week over the refusal of the minister to inaugurate the Chief Frank Kokori-led NSITF board. The minister had named Mr. Austin Enejamo-Isire as chairman of board of the NSITF, an action which triggered the labour’s wrath who insisted on Kokori as the Chairman. “I am very happy that we have somebody like Kokori, that the powers that be are actually afraid of somebody like him. If I were him, he doesn’t even need any appointment. All he needs is the appointment of God almighty, he needs the appointment of Nigerian workers. Nigerian workers celebrate him. We say that he is a hero. “If there has been corruption in the system, I think we need somebody that is anti-corrupt to stop the corruption and also address the issues. “Clearly this is the missing link and therefore nobody can deny your rights and no system can deny us the right to peaceful protest. No system can deny us the right of picketing, that is the point we want to make today. “If our political elites are afraid of protest and picketing then certainly it cannot be under a democratic dispensation,” Wabba said. Also, President of the Academic Staff Unions of Universities (ASUU), Prof. Biodun Ogunyemi, said attack on workers was an attempt to erode democracy in Nigeria. “We need people that can call leaders to account for their actions. The government on its own approached Kokori in order to pudge NSITF of corrupt tendencies. “We call on President Buhari to set up a powerful investigative panel to investigate the attack on workers,” he said. Recall problem started when the organised labour accused the minister replaced the name of Chief Frank Kokori with Mr. Austin Enejamo-Isire as chairman of board of the NSITF. The crisis degenerated to the point where the NLC picketed the residence of the minister using two petroleum tankers to block the entrance and exit points to his house which resulted to clashes between alleged thugs hired by the minister and the labour officials, but peace returned yesterday on Sunday when the Presidency in a statement by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, expressed regret over the misunderstanding between the labour and the minister on the matter. The statement also clarified that Enejamo-Isire was appointed as Chairman NSITF board by Mr. President and the inauguration of the board took place on Monday, May 13 as scheduled in the release.