Patrick Okohue The Governor of Plateau state, Simon Lalong has commended the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) and its General Overseer, Pastor Enoch Adeboye for always being at the forefront of social responses targeted at bringing succour to people regardless of race, colour and religion. Gov. Lalong, who spoke yesterday in Jos at the commissioning of an ultra-modern intensive care unit at the Jos Specialist Hospital, expressed gratitude to the leadership of His Love Foundation for considering the Jos Specialist Hospital as the next facility in the country to benefit from the good works of the foundation. Lalong recalled that the foundation having delivered a similar facility at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) in 2017 and now chose Jos Specialist Hospital attest to the broadness of mind and reach of the church. Speaking earlier, Pastor Adeboye expressed gratitude to God for granting the church the enablement and also thanked the leadership of the Jos Specialist Hospital for receiving the church and allowing the development of the facility. He prayed that through the facility many already considered to be in critical condition, but receiving treatment at the facility would receive their healing. Highlighting the other intervention programmes and projects of the church through the foundation, the Special Assistant to the General Overseer on Christian Social Responsibility (CSR), Pastor Idowu Iluyomade said what the church was doing was in response to the clarion call of Jesus Christ to every believer to be mindful of the sick, the poor, those in prison and the hungry. Iluyomade confirmed that the church has committed itself to giving succour in six specific areas of health, education, feeding, social enterprise, rehabilitation and prisons, adding that it is part of the cardinal focus of the church’s social responsibility. Pastor in -charge of the Plateau region, Pastor Sunday Akande whilst thanking the Pastor Adeboye and the governor of Plateau state, expressed gratitude to the leadership of the foundation for the good gesture and show of love to the state and by extension the region. He then called on the people of Plateau state to live together in peace and continue to live harmoniously in love which is the bedrock of the charity works of the church and the message of Jesus Christ.