Nosa Akenzua, Asaba, Ahmad Sorondinki, Kano, Moses Oyediran, Enugu and Haruna Usman, Birnin Kebbi As workers all over the world mark Workers’ Day, Delta State Governor, Senator (Dr.) Ifeanyi Okowa, has described labour unions as great defenders of the welfare of workers. The governor, who addressed members of the organised labour under the auspices of the Trade Union Congress (TUC) and the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) at the May Day celebration on Wednesday in Asaba, said that “the efforts of the trade unions towards the promotion of the interests of Nigerian workers have not gone unnoticed and I wish to reiterate the determination of the state government to pay workers the N30, 000 new minimum wage approved by the Federal Government.” Governor Okowa disclosed at the occasion that to tackle the issue of unemployment, his administration is making efforts to recall some of the employees that were dropped and is “determined to open up more skill acquisition opportunities for the absorption of our youths to train in various fields and trades for self-employment.” Highpoint of the occasion was the presentation of a brand new car by Governor Okowa to a civil servant, Mr. Benson Ekotor, who was erroneously paid the sum of N53 million which he returned to the state government’s coffers. Chairman of TUC in the state, Comrade Michael Nwobodo and his NLC counterpart, Comrade Goodluck Oforbruku had in their speeches, thanked Governor Okowa for being labour-friendly listing some of his administration’s activities to include prompt payment of salaries. Also, Governor Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara State assured on Wednesday that his administration would be one of the pacesetters among states that would implement the new national minimum wage of N30, 000. Yari made this known in his remarks at this year’s Workers’ Day celebration in Gusau. The governor, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Prof. Abdullahi Shinkafi, urged the workers to continue to exhibit handwork and dedication to the successful implementation of government policies and programmes. Earlier, the state chapter of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Bashir Mafara, urged the governor to fulfill all the promises he made to the people before May 29 when his tenure would end. The state NLC chairman stated further that “we are happy that the state governor recently promised to implement the national minimum wage of N30, 000 and we are hopeful that this will be done before the end of the administration. On our part, we will continue to support all government programmes at all levels as a way of showing appreciation to what is done to us.” Mafara, who condoled with the government and people of the state over the killing of innocent lives in the state by bandits, urged the state government to continue to partner with relevant security agencies in order to stop the trend. It was learnt that workers in the state defied the scorching sun to mark the May Day celebration, which held at the Zamfara College of Arts and Science. Meanwhile, Kano State government has concluded all necessary arrangements for the implementation of the new N30, 000 minimum wage to civil servants in the state. Celebrating the annual workers’ day at Sani Abacha Stadium, Kano, on Wednesday, Governor Abdullahi Ganduje, stated that enhancing the welfare of civil servants has been his major cardinal thrust and that nothing would serve as a cog in the wheel of his resolve to forge ahead. He, however, explained that in an effort to boost the morale of civil servants, the state government had abolished the dichotomy between degree holders and HND holders working in the state. According to him, his administration has concluded all necessary arrangements and logistics for the implementation of the new minimum wage approved by President Muhammadu Buhari. In his remarks, the Chairman of the Nigerian labour Congress (NLC), Kano state chapter, Comrade Kabiru Minjibir, commended the efforts of the state government in enhancing the welfare and working condition of civil servants in the state. He appealed to the state government to implement the payment of allowances for workers of the state tertiary institution as is applicable to their colleagues in the federal civil service. Also, Governor Abubakar Bello of Niger State on Wednesday said that the state government would inaugurate a committee to discuss with the organised labour on how to implement the new N30,000 minimum wage. Bello, who was not specific on when the committee would come, made this known in Minna during the 2019 May Day celebration. “I have listened to the demands of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) chairman. We will not promise to solve all your problems in one day but to take them according to priority. “We will inaugurate a committee to initiate discussion with the organised labour on how to implement the N30,000 new minimum wage recently signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari,” he said. He said that government was making plans to increase its Internal Generated Revenue (IGR) to cater for workers welfare and development of the state. The Governor said that the state would cut unnecessary spending in the system to be able to maintain the new minimum wage. He advised civil servants against financial coruption in the system to enable Government carry out meaningful development. Earlier, Mr. Yakubu Garba, NLC Chairman in the state, demanded for improved welfare package for the workers, especially the implementation of the new minimum wage to enable them perform optimally. “The organised labour is confident that Mr. Governor will redeem his earlier commitment on the new national minimum wage by paying the approved N30,000 in the month of April, 2019 as he had earlier promised to implement whatever is agreed as National Minimum Wage,” he said. However, Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo of Gombe State and the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Gombe State chapter on Wednesday called for peaceful co-existence amongst the people of the state. The appeal followed the death of 10 persons hit by a car during a procession on Sunday night by the Boys’ Brigade in Gombe ahead of Easter Monday’s celebration. The incident, which raised tension in the state, led to the imposition of curfew by the state government on April 27. Dankwambo, represented by his deputy, Mr. Charles Iliya, stressed that peace remained a necessary tool for the development of the state, adding that the people should continue to leave in peace with one another. While also using the opportunity to extend his condolences to the families of deceased in the unfortunate incidence, he wished those in the hospital quick recovery. Earlier, Comrade Mohammed Musa, NLC Chairman, Gombe State chapter, called on the people of the state to remain calm and law abiding. Musa also appealed to the state government to implement the N30, 000 minimum wage as soon as the circular was released. Also in Benue State, Governor Samuel Ortom, has assured workers in the state that his administration would soon implement the approved national minimum wage. In his address at the celebration of the 2019 workers’ day held at the IBB Square, Makurdi, Ortom said that he would soon be meeting with Labour on the implementation of the new minimum wage in the state. The governor said that he put in place machineries to work towards the payment of the arrears of salaries owed all Benue workers as well as pensioners. To be able to meet the implementation of the minimum wage, Ortom said that he was determined to take a multi-dimensional approach in solving the problems of salary payment. On his part, Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi, on Wednesday, approved the N30, 000 new national minimum wage for the state civil servants with a promise to continue to work for their welfare in the years ahead. The governor, who stated this during the May Day celebration at the Pa Ngele Oruta Township Stadium, commended the civil servants for their role in his emergence as governor for the second term in the March 9th governorship election. “In my presentation, I did make a promise that our state shall not be the first and will not be last to pay the new national minimum wage. So I, therefore, approve the new minimum wage for our civil servants in the state.” Gov. Umahi further said his administration placed a high premium on workers’ welfare, adding that “in my administration, all I have done in the last four years was to address your challenges and develop workable blueprint to address your problems and I am happy to say that within the years under review, a tremendous milestone has been achieved in terms of prioritizing your welfare. Earlier, the Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress in Ebonyi State, Comrade Leo Nkah, commended the governor for approving necessary welfare allowances and appealed for speedy implementation of the New Pension Act of 2014. He said civil servants in the state are most grateful to the governor for listening to their pleas and thanked him for the provision of N4 billion for civil servants to access to help them go into agriculture to sustain their living. Meanwhile, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State has assured workers in the state that their welfare is paramount to his administration and promised to do anything to sustain the existing relationship. Speaking at this year’s Workers Day celebration held at the Michael Okpara Square, Enugu, Governor Ugwuanyi, who promised to ensure that the state remains a model for peace and good governance, stated that his administration will continue to pay salaries and other emoluments as and when due. The governor added that the state government “will continue to provide more conducive work conditions and to do all that is necessary to ensure that industrial harmony continues to prevail in Enugu state.” Gov. Ugwuanyi, who applauded the jubilant workers for their show of understanding, love, patience, goodwill and cooperation as committed allies in the quest to make the state a better place for all residents, also thanked them for their prayers, solidarity and overwhelming support during the last general elections. On the burning issue of the new national minimum wage, the governor assured the workers that “despite the daunting economic challenges, we will, in concert with the relevant agencies and departments of government, ensure that these issues are comprehensively and satisfactorily addressed.” While wishing all workers a happy celebration, Gov. Ugwuanyi urged them to remain true to their obligations and approach their duties with greater zeal and commitment “so that collectively, we can achieve the higher levels of efficiency and productivity that will fast-track the socio-economic development of our dear state.” Earlier in their separate addresses, the state Chairmen of the Trade Union Congress (TUC) and Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Igbokwe Chukwuma Igbokwe and Comrade Virginus Nwobodo respectively, commended Governor Ugwuanyi for his outstanding commitment to the welfare of the workers of the state and the existing harmonious working relationship between the organized labour and the state government as well as the peace, security and the cordial rapport  between the executive and legislature, calling on other state governors to emulate him. However, this year’s May Day celebration in Kebbi State witnessed a low turnout of workers, as only a few labour unions and civil servants turned up for the celebration at the Haliru Abdu Stadium. State Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Umar Alhassan, in his speech congratulated workers in the state for a successful conduct of the 2019 general election, especially the role played by civil servants in the state. The labour leader urged the state government to improve its internally generated revenue to boost its financial power, adding that such can be achieved through the rehabilitation of the state moribund industries. Umar further appealed to the government to pay hazard allowances to agricultural workers in the state to enable them discharge their duties. Secretary to the State Government, Umar Ahmed, who read the governor’s speech, said that the state government will give necessary attention to the issue of implementing the minimum wage in the state, adding that the Bagudu administration pays civil servants salaries promptly. He congratulated workers on the May Day celebration and urged them to use the occasion for sober reflection.