Alade Tasma The Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, and the Chief Whip, Hon. Rotimi Abiru have enjoined Nigerians, particularly Muslims, to use  the Ramadhan period to pray for peace and love to continue to reign in the country. Obasa in his Ramadhan message said, “The Ramadhan period calls for sober reflection for all of us. It is a period that calls for us to move closer to God and we should not relent in our prayers for peace and love to reign in Nigeria,” the Lagos Assembly Speaker, who is also Chairman of Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures of Nigeria, said. Rt. Hon. Obasa gave this as advice in his message greeting Muslims for the commencement of the Ramadhan (fasting) released and signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Musbau Rasak. According to him, “It is a period for us to be tolerant of each other. Ramadhan goes beyond abstinence from food, drinks and sexual intercourse alone. It is also the period for us to be reinvigorated and reinvest ourselves spiritually. We should continue to pray for continuous peace and love in the country,” he said. Rt. Hon. Obasa urged Nigerians to remain security conscious by being vigilant at all time. “We have to assist security agencies in combating crimes by being vigilant at all times. We should refrain from utterances and actions that can cause breach of peace in the society. We should also endeavor to be watchful of our environment by promptly reporting any suspicious action, person or group of people,” he said. “On behalf of my colleagues in the Lagos State House of Assembly, I wish all Nigerian Muslims a fulfilling and rewarding Ramadhan. I pray that Almighty Allah accept it as an act of ‘Ibadah from all of us,” the Lagos Assembly Speaker said. Also in his message, Abiru called on Muslims to use the period of Holy Month of Ramadan to pray for solutions to the country’s challenges including security issues. The lawmaker who is representing Shomolu Constituency 02 at the State Assembly explained that the state of security in Nigeria calls for prayer. “I believe with prayer and the efforts of our security agents, the wicked activities of kidnappers, Boko Haram and other forms of criminality will be solved.” The Lawmaker noted that “this is the period Muslims should use to pray mostly for peace, unity and prosperity of the country,” noting that the swearing in of another administration coincidentally falls in the holy month of Ramadan. Abiru further advised Muslim faithful to seize the opportunity to pray for themselves and the nation. He urged Nigerians to shun all forms of criminality and activities that can engender unrest and also be vigilant in their various communities. As the holy month of Ramadan begins today, Abiru Urged Muslims faithful to preach love, tolerance and seek forgiveness of sins as he wished all Muslims a happy Ramadan.