…Warns against spreading misleading information about the ministry Ukpono Ukpong, Abuja The Ministry of Labour and Employment has dismissed as cheap and unconscionable lies  the allegations by  the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG), and the Nigerian Labour Congress(NLC) that the Minister was on a vendetta mission to proscribe NUPENG. In a statement signed by signed by the Head of Press and Public Relations in the ministry, Rhoda Iliya, the Minister warned the leadership of NUPENG to desist from misleading the public by spreading wrong information about the Ministry. The warning came less than 72 hours after the leadership of the union had accused the minister of threatening to proscribe the union. NUPENG President, William Akporeha, in a statement said that the minister, Sen. Chris Ngige issued a directive to the union to produce its only outstanding financial returns for 2018 within 72hours, when the extant law stipulates 30 days. He also accused the minister of carrying all their files right from inception of the union 1978) to date in a bid to fish out phantom reasons he intends to use in proscribing the union. While describing the allegations as not only false but mischievous, he explained that “On 13th May, 2019, a letter was written by the Department of Trade Union Services and Industrial Relations (TUSIR) of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, precisely by the Registrar of Trade Union to both the NUPENG and Trade Union Congress (TUC) drawing the attention of the Unions to the non-rendition of their financial returns for the years 2017 and 2018 . The letter directed that the Unions should comply according to the provisions of Sections 40 and 37(i) of the Trade Unions Act of 2004 which states that “every registered body shall send to the registrar before 1stJune in each year, an annual return in the prescribed form… and shall be certified as correct by the dully appointed auditor.” “The NUPENG and TUC being in breach of this section 37(i) the Registrar of Trade Union invoked Sec. 40 of the Trade Unions Act Cap T. 14(LFN) 2004 which gives the Registrar of Trade Union powers to request that all the books of accounts of defaulting unions be submitted to the Registrar for further scrutiny to make for accountability in the management of the unions’ funds, which are check-of dues of workers deducted at source from their salaries . “While the TUC President personally came to the Ministry to explain his predicament and asked for extension of time on compassionate ground, the ever combative, arrogant and ill-informed NUPENG leadership took to the press for base name-calling, reminding everyone of their ill-fated invasion of the private residence of the Hon. Minister and asking this group of junior cadre oil workers, especially tanker drivers to be on red alert for strike – thus threatening Nigerians instead of apologies for being in default.  We  warn NUPENG to cease forthwith with this senseless bogey of tanker drivers.” Ngige maintained that the ministry was only carrying out its statutory functions as NUPENG was not only singled out neither was it asked to produce only the annual report of 2018 as they had had conducted in their 2019 conference. He also declared that the ministry has no intention of proscribing NUPENG or any Union whatsoever, though constitutionally empowered to do so if need be. “It is evident that the Ministry was only carrying out its statutory functions.  NUPENG was not singled out, neither was it asked to provide only the annual report of 2018 as they had conducted their 2019 conference. “The Ministry therefore wishes to state that the Hon. Minister has no intention of  proscribing NUPENG or any Union whatsoever, though constitutionally empowered to do so if need be, and warns the leadership of NUPENG to desist from misleading the public by spreading wrong information about the Ministry. “In the same vein, the Ministry notes that the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), who unfortunately is crying more than the bereaved, knowing full well that NUPENG is affiliated to the United Labour Congress(ULC)has suddenly realized that the Minister was  the only competent authority in all labour matters in line with the provisions of the ILO. How we wish it had realized this all the while and not engage in a futile, ill-advised skirmish with the Hon. Minister over a constitutional right of the President to make  political appointments.” Ngige said.