Godwin Anyebe Minimie Chinchin and Minimie Noodles in collaboration with the Lagos State Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Oyo State Ministry of Women Affairs & Social Development are currently working together towards empowering Nigerians by providing them with trade assets to start up new businesses. Minimie is a household name and the Nigerian most loved variant of snacks and Noodles. Minimie actively entered the Nigerian marketing landscape in 2015 with its unique snack and noodle offering and has since been making significant marks in the snack category across the nation. Few Nigerian youth, aspiring to become small business owners have benefited from the program receiving branded kiosks fully equipped with cartons of all regular and new flavours of the brand like Minimie Instant Noodles Tomato & chicken flavour, Minimie Chin-chin regular and the newly introduced Minimie Chinchin- Hot and spicy flavour courtesy Minimie in conjunction with the Ministry of Women Affairs in Lagos and Oyo state. According to the brand Manager, Minimie, Rani Kolati in a statement made available to newsmen recently in Lagos, the initiative was borne out of the realization that lots of Nigerian youth who are unemployed still have the zeal to become entrepreneurs. However, due to financial constraints, they cannot start on their own. In view of this, we decided to encourage youth who are the future of the nation, with a business to start up. We bootstrap them with a sales kiosk, stock, startup fund and support them with supplies, so they can continue the business and support their family. “We set up these sales kiosks in secure strategic locations for these budding and aspiring entrepreneurs at densely populated bus stops/ parks to enhance sales. After the official handover to them, we ensure to deploy our area marketing managers to assist with sales training and regular checks to help achieve a significant amount of profits which will keep them in business for a long time”, Rani stated. Currently there are fifteen kiosks scattered across Lagos, four in Ibadan, one in Abeokuta, two in Ilorin, three in Onitsha, one in Port Harcourt and six in Benin and many others in the pipeline. During the donation exercise in Abeokuta, the Ogun State Commissioner of Women Affairs and Social Development, Hon. Mrs Abiola Kufile- Okonji while handing over the business to Mrs Sangobiyi- Dorcas stated that the initiative was in line with the vision of the state government to create jobs, wealth opportunities and alleviate poverty among residents in the state. She also commends the efforts of the Minimie Team for collaboration with the Ministry towards providing jobs opportunity for the people in dire need to make ends meet. In the same line, Lagos State Commissioner Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Hon. Mrs Lola Akande at the empowerment exercise in Lagos, while appreciating the Minimie brand also advised beneficiaries to make the best use of the opportunity presented by effectively deploying skills and assets into the running of their businesses profitably and sustainably.