Kingsley Chukwuka, Jos President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressive Congress (APC) have been commended for backing a House of Representatives member from Plateau state to emerge as the deputy speaker in the 9th National Assembly. A group known as ‘All for one, one for all’ which made the commendation, said the choice for Rep. Ahmed Idris Maje, member representing Wase Federal Constituency of Plateau state as deputy speaker couldn’t have come at a better time than now when Plateau is clamoring for an inclusion at the center. The group’s Coordinator, Yakubu Maram in a statement issued on Monday in Jos, assured that Rep. Maje will not only pilot the affairs of the House professionally, but will also enact laws that will better the lots of Nigerians. “He is an astute leader who is known as a man of simplicity, honesty and hard work; virtues which became visible since he came to lime light in 2005 till date and is a man with an exceptional display of leadership. “He took it upon himself to close the gap and the imbalances created across various state, in terms of employment and infrastructural distribution to bring them in line with the federal character principle, and has equally, distinguished himself to his constituents and has excelled in youth empowerment, increased access to quality education and provision of infrastructure. “He has sponsored several bills and has supported the passage of some executive bills that have impacted on the good governance being experienced in the country. His contributions are legendary on the floor of the House. “However, our great party, the APC and Mr. President has thought it wise by zoning the deputy speaker to the North Central and micro -zoned it to Rep. Maje in particular. “Maje acceptance to respect the party’s position and Mr. President’s inclination to accept him as the deputy speaker shows how deeply committed he is in supporting party ideals and ensuring the unity of purpose that is needed to move the country to the next level,” the statement said.