Our reporter The Committee for the inauguration of Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha as governor of Imo State has raised the alarm obvious acts of sabotage by out-going governor, Rochas Okorocha. A statement signed by the secretary to the committee on Media and Publicity Emeka Omeihe and made available to Daily Times alleges that a few days to the May 29 programme, the governor has done anything tangible to show readiness for the handover, in spite of several meetings held by the joint committee set up by the two side on the matter. According to Emeka Omeihe, the committee set up by Rochas for the inauguration has lined up several harsh conditions as deliberate potholes to act as alibi for the governor to abdicate his responsibilities on the inauguration, promising however that the governor-elect would be successfully inauguration, with or without Rochas’s willingness. “Sequel to discussions with the government of Imo state on the need for a smooth and successful swearing-in and handover ceremonies in the state on May 29, 2019, the Governor-Elect, Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha raised a 31-man committee to interface with the 21-man team set up by the state government to work out details of the program for the exercise. “The two committees met formally on three different occasions. There were also other meetings by the leadership of the two committees. In one of the formal meetings, a decision was taken to set up a sub-committee of 10 members comprising five members from the two sides to fast-track the process. The sub-committee, conscious of the limited time available, immediately went into action working day and night. After a painstaking exercise, they reached agreement on a program of activities that will lead to successful and hitch-free swearing-in and handover ceremonies. “In the course of one of these meetings, committee members paid a courtesy call on His Excellency, Governor Rochas Okorocha who promised to do all within his powers to ensure a successful and eventful swearing-in and handover ceremonies in the state come May, 29, 2019. “With barely a few days to the commencement of some of the activities preceding the actual swearing-in and handover ceremonies, we regret to say that the body language of the state government no longer imbues confidence that it is genuinely committed to the overall success of that exercise,” the statement said. Continuing, the committee stated that, “It is increasingly getting clearer that unless we proceed on terms dictated by them, the state government will be reluctant to discharge its constitutional responsibilities regarding the swearing-in and handover ceremonies. We find this tardiness although characteristic on their part, very discomforting.” It urged the governor to discharge his constitutional responsibilities is expected of him irrespective of his personal feelings over the imminent emergence of a new chief executive officer of the state a few days from now. “We urge Governor Okorocha to show good faith for once by redeeming his pledge to the good people of Imo state to ensure a successful and hitch-free swearing-in and Handover to the Governor-elect, Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha without further delay “We are constrained to bring this unpleasant development to the public domain in the hope that the state government will do the needful. “On our part, we wish to reassure the good people of Imo state and beyond who have been yearning for the successful swearing-in and handover to the Governor-Elect Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha that we have put in place all arrangements within human powers to ensure that the exercise is a resounding success. That is our promise,” the statement concluded.