The Nigerian Army said the military is well prepared to protect Kano state against any act of criminality, including banditry, kidnapping, armed robbery, cattle rustling and all acts of terrorism. Commander 3 Brigade, Bamidele Ali Alabi spoke Tuesday while receiving the executive members of the Correspondent Chapel, Kano state chapter of the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ) in his office at Bukavu Barracks. According to him, the military is combat-ready to deal with  bandits perpetrating criminal activities in neighbouring states of Zamfara, Katsina, Kaduna and Sokoto, who are planning to infiltrate Kano. He stated that “Kano is not a place that you allow things to escalate. We operate by the rules of engagement. Already, the chief of army staff has approved a joint-task force here in Kano and Jigawa states, and we have been operating in synergy with sister security agencies. “We always allow the police to move in first and when our services are needed, we are always around and do the needful. Just yesterday (May 27), we were at the Karaye emirate where we held a security seminar. All security agencies were fully represented. I was there in person. The governor was also there. “The Emir of Karaye, district heads, village heads and other stakeholders were there and our discussions were very fruitful. I assure you that the military is ready to play its own part to ensure that Kano remains peaceful.” Brigadier-General Alabi, however, underscored the role of the media in peace and order in the society, pointing out that the military recognize such roles and would always want to work in synergy with the media to ensure a peaceful and crime-free society. “We commend journalists in Kano for their high sense of professionalism. For the short time I have spent here, I can attest to the fact that you people are not sentimental or sensational in your reportage and I want you to keep it up. “The military had always worked together with the media. Media operation remains one of our most tactical training. Media is a very important component of military operation. I promise you that the brigade will continue to provide full support to the media,” he added. Speaking earlier, the chairman of the Kano state NUJ Correspondent Chapel, Comrade Ibrahim Shuaibu, said they were at 3 Brigade to renew the existing cordial relationship between the military and working journalists in Kano.