By Patrick Okohue The acting Consulate-General of the People’s Republic of China in Lagos, Guan Zhonggu has said that major ongoing infrastructure works in Nigeria, especially the railways, deep sea ports and free trade zones handled by CCECC aimed at accelerating industrialization and urbanization will not suffer any form of delay in delivery as the projects will be delivered as agreed. According to him, 60 per cent of the first phase of its bilateral partnership agreement with Nigeria through the CCECC would be completed by 2021. Guan made this assertion at a press parley held in the Chinese consulate office in Lagos, to sensitize the world about its open trade policy framework designed by his home government. Also, while reeling out the progress report of the Chinese/Nigeria bilateral agreement, Liu Junsheng, the commercial consul, revealed that the Nigeria railway modernization project Lagos-Ibadan section with extension to Apapa Port, connecting three important states namely Lagos, Ogun and Oyo states has a total contract sum of $1.581billion. “The Export –Import Bank of China (EIBC) provided $1.267billion of concessional loans accounting for 80.14 per cent of the total contract sum of the addendum number 2 and 2A and the Nigerian government provides counterpart funds of $314 million, accounting for 19.86 per cent,” he added. According to him, the project spans three years from May 2017 and expected to be completed in May 2020 and it adopts China railway primary standard gauge with a designed speed of 150km/h. “CCECC being a subsidiary of CRCC has organized a management team of great performance with professional planning. Construction works commenced simultaneously in different sections of the project with over 10, 000 foreign and local employees and over 1, 600 sets of equipment. “The project has been progressing with safety, quality and efficiency despite the rainy season, tight schedule and various obstacles. Over 80 per cent of the foundation works and over 100 kilometers of double track laying have been completed. Further track laying to Ibadan is progressing at a rate of two kilometres per day. The project is planned to be completed in May 2020. “The rail line will serve as a better means of collection, distribution and mass movement of haulage to and from the Lagos port, thereby, decongesting the port and eliminating the gridlocks often caused by trailers on the road. “The completion of the project will also increase the throughput capacity of the Lagos port which can facilitate the development of the port and enhance the positive influence of Lagos City on its north-east regions.”