Chioma Joseph, Lagos Committed to improve the welfare of personnel of the Nigerian Army (NA), the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt. -Gen. Tukur Buratai, on Tuesday commissioned six blocks of redesigned and  reconstructed buildings, at 68 NA Reference Hospital, Myhoung Barracks in Yaba, Lagos. The reconstructed buildings which were made of three blocks of two bedroom flats, and three blocks of Corporal and Below Quarters( CBQs), is part of the first phase of reconstruction works ordered by the COAS. The COAS, who also commissioned the renovated 81 Division Garrison Office Complex, in Obalende, stressed that a good working environment improves the morale of soldiers as they discharge their duties. Buratai who was represented by the General Officer Commanding (GOC), 81 Division, Major-General Sanni Yusuf, said, “ To operate efficiently, armed forces require physical separation from civilian society,  therefore,  the barracks was created. A good working environment especially in the area of decent accommodation for the NA has been priority since I was appointed COAS. “ I have also made significant effort to renovate and reconstruct accommodation for personnel and their families to enable them to give quality service delivery to the nation. I was here in 2018 on assessment tour of 68 NARCHY and I went round the barracks. I was stunned by the level of depreciation and neglect the structure were in and therefore,  I directed the immediate renovation and remodeling of six blocks as the first phase of the reconstruction work. “  It is therefore with much pleasure and deep sense of fulfilment that I return here today,  to commission phase one of the renovated blocks into use for the soldiers. “The provision of comfortable, rudimentary infrastructure and hygienic living conditions, increase the moral of personnel and their families, thereby reducing the risk of stress disorder. “The project has involved the redesigning and reconstruction of the old 3 blocks of two bedrooms and three blocks of corporal and below quarters (CBQs). “ It is expected that this edifice will be  put into efficient use and properly maintained. I remain committed to providing the necessary funds to continue with the rest of the accommodation despite the economic constraints in the country. “ I therefore enjoin the soldiers of the accommodation to maintain the accommodation so that the continuation of the project and money spent will be justified. I will not tolerate the deterioration of dysfunction of these blocks anytime soon.” The Garrison Commander,  Brig. -Gen. Caleb Dalahatu while speaking at the commissioning of the Garrison Complex said the complex will no doubt enhance productivity. The commander who spoke on the renovated office complex said,  “ The desire of the COAS to provide a conducive and befitting working environment for personnel of the NA necessitated the remodeling and renovation of the 81 Division Garrison Office Complex. “ Let us use this opportunity to assure the COAS that the renovated office complex will be put to good use through routine maintenance of the facility. The office complex will no doubt,  enhance our productivity.” In his welcome remark, the Acting Corps Commander Medical, Col. Samuel Adama, promised that soldiers will maintain the new accommodation. “ With this edifice you have put up here sir,  it will boost the morale of not only soldiers in Myhoung Barracks, but all personnel of the NA particularly those in the North East knowing that their families are being cared for back home. “  It is my solemn promise that  we will do all it takes to ensure that the buildings are properly maintained. To the beneficiaries, I congratulate you and enjoin you to make sure that the standard we are seeing here today is maintained always,” he stated. Earlier, soldiers’ wives, who said they had been anticipating the commissioning of the reconstructed buildings, so as to move in, praised the leadership of NA for the guesture.