Nosa Akenzua, Asaba Vice Chancellor, Delta state University (DELSU), Abraka, Prof. Victor Peretemode has explained measures that the management took to defeat cultism, sexual harassment, disclosing that the feat was achieved through fasting and prayers. Prof. Peretemode, who spoke to our correspondent on Monday in Abraka, disclosed that the university’s management and staff embarked on fasting and praying for 40 days and 40 nights. The vice chancellor added however, that the prayers and fasting sessions were laced with intensive campaigns with many of the students who were into cultism fleeing the institution for other universities to avoid being arrested by security agencies who also were part of the institution’s strategy to defeat the cult menace. He said that “it was not easy to subdue the menace of cultism, sexual harassment in DELSU, but we were determined to wipe out the evil activities; many of our students stayed away from the school. “We had to contend with lots, especially sexual harassment and we found that many of the allegations against some of the lecturers were not true, but for the true stories, the lecturers involved were axed and shown the way out.” Prof. Peretemode noted that cultism which adversely affected the university’s reputation, was now history due to the robust security measures put in place to tackle the menace and the anti-cultism campaigns outside the fasting and prayers conducted by management and staff of the university. “To tackle the malaise squarely, I had to write a book against cultism and other campus vices in which I exposed the consequences of cultism, prostitution, drug abuse, examination malpractice and other vices in lurid pictures and prose style,” he stated. The cice chancellor further disclosed that he fought the illegal imposition of N1, 000 laboratory levy and imposition of handouts on students, adding that he would leave behind self-discipline, integrity and honesty as some of his legacies. Also, he declared that under his watch 14 lecturers were probed and sanctioned for plagiarism, including lecturers caught in the web of sexual harassment, adding “in all, l must appreciate God almighty for supporting our prayers and the state governor. “We had to key into his programmes and policies in terms of working and relating with the students, the Abraka community and security agencies. Today, we have succeeded in making DELSU second to none among the state-owned universities; the journey was not easy, but God saw us through,” he said.