Nosa Akenzua, Asaba The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) in Asaba donated two truck load of relief materials to victims of the 2018 flood disaster in Delta state. Our correspondent reports that the materials which came in two articulated vehicles contained several items, including sewing machines, bags of rice, garri, beans, toiletries, beddings and vegetable oil. Presenting the items, Director-General NIMASA, Dr. Dakuku Peterside said the donation was part of the agency’s social corporate responsibility to alleviate the pains suffered by the 2018 flood victims in the state. The director- general, who was represented by the Head, Corporate Communications, Mr. Isichei Osamgbi said the donation was in response to the call by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo for corporate organizations to support those impacted by the flood. He said though the agency’s core mandate was to regulate and promote shipping and maritime ventures, the agency was aware of the plight of the people impacted by the recent flooding and natural disasters in the country. According to him, the agency is also extending same gesture to 19 other states across the country affected by flooding. “The agency has decided to identify with victims of natural and other disasters living in different camps spread across the six geopolitical zones of the country with the aim of giving them a sense of belonging. “NIMASA has decided to render this assistance to the victims of flooding in 20 states, including Delta as a mark of identification with our brothers and sisters and to share in their trying moments. “We are here with a message of hope as a corporate organization to support you with our contributions of various relief materials,’’ Peterside said. He encouraged the victims not to be discouraged in the face of challenges and not to give in to despondence and frustration, but remain resolute as NIMASA would remain a worthy partner in progress. Receiving the items from the delegation, the state Commissioner for Special Duties, Ernest Ogwezzy thanked NIMASA for the donation and pledged to effectively distribute them to those affected by the flood.