Alade Tasma, Lagos Lagos State Governor-elect, Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, has promised to ensure good working relationship with the 9th Lagos House of Assembly starting from the day of his inauguration in May 29, 2019. The Governor-elect made this promise while speaking at the opening ceremony of an induction workshop for the members-elect of the Lagos 9th Assembly held at Golden Tulip Hotel, Festac, Lagos on Thursday. Sanwo-Olu. who expressed delight on having to grace the occasion as the Special Guest of Honour at workshop with the theme; “Responsive Representation And Quality Legislation As Prerequisites To Good Governance,” promised to work with the Assembly to achieve the goal of governance. The Governor-elect explained that the theme of the workshop has put everybody on the rightful platform, “especially as the populace have elected all of us from the APC to represent the people”. He stressed that as the representatives of the people, the executive and the legislature must ensure good governance, proper and adequate representation. “You will not only be engaging yourselves, you will be thinking deep on how to represent your people well based on the trust. “We are not the most intelligent, but the people chose us. You will spend the rest two days for quality discuss so that the people would begin to feel the impact of our discussions for you to represent them well. “I am excited because I will be working with people that have excelled in their chosen professions. “With the Clerk and the staff of the Assembly, I believe that we will work together and put in proper perspective the responsibilities of the legislature. “We have different responsibilities, but we are in office to achieve a common goal. I want to assure you all that you will be seeing a government that understands the importance of the legislature,” Sanwo-Olu stated. The incoming Governor disclosed that he had worked with the Assembly in the past as he had the opportunity to present the budget of the state as the Commissioner for Budget and Economic Planning in the state on two occasions. He then promised to ensure that he will fulfill his campaign promises to the people and the political class would see that they have not made any mistake in putting him in office. “I will need your support and anything that you need to work properly without any fear would be put on the tables. “It would not just be work, work, work but what are the things that we could do together to make the whole thing work better. “I believe that Lagosians and Nigerians would be better off for the training session you are going through now,” he concluded. The Speaker in his speech explained that there is separation of power and fusion of power, adding that the cooperation between the executive and the legislature had just started and promised that the Assembly would work with the executive for the benefit of the people. “The electioneering process had just ended and it was rigorous. I congratulate all of you on your victory and it shows the level of confidence the people repose in us. “We give glory to God that the 40 of us are from the APC. There is a need to settle down and take a look at our electioneering promises and design blueprint on how to fulfill them. “The role of democracy is very crucial and it is very important. The legislature in Nigeria is underdeveloped compared to the executive based on military intervention. “A democratic society must give power to the people to choose their leaders. In a democracy situation, citizenship must be restored to the people. It is imperative to understudy the importance of the legislative arm of government. “It is an arm through which the people participate in government. It is also central to the government. It must function effectively to restore democracy,” he said. The Speaker added that the representation function of the legislature is fundamental, and that without effective representation, democracy could not be functional. He said:”When legislature does not function effectively it has effect on the society. “Lawmaking is the most visible activities of the legislature, but we can also contribute to the growth of the government. “There is need to set aside personal gains in favour of effective governance. Without legislature democracy is not possible. Nation building becomes collosal without the contributions of the parliamentarians. “Let us not forget that to whom much is given much is expected. I am optimistic that we will not fail and we will assist the government to provide good leadership for the people. “There must be collaboration between the executive and the legislature. It must however take precedence over the executive as the custodians of the will of the people. “We must be resolute and remove all the obstacles put on our way to ensure democracy in our nation.” The Clerk of the House, Mr. Azeez Sanni, had earlier said in his welcome address that the programme was organised to introduce the incoming members to legislative activities and procedures. “The legislature is an important aspect of the government for the representatives of the people. “The Lagos State House of Assembly is one of the foremost assemblies in Nigeria. It is the most vibrant legislature in Nigeria. “The 8th Assembly has performed creditably well. I want to commend the leadership of the assembly for their vision and commitment to governance. “There is need for the members elect to improve on their skills and legislative abilities. Our resource persons are practical persons who have either gone through the mills or are still part of legislative activities in the country. I want to reassure the members elect of the preparedness of the staff to give you the necessary support,” the Clerk stated.