By Peter Fowoyo For allegedly causing grievous harm, recklessness and negligence, the Lagos state government on Tuesday arraigned the Medical Director of Excel Medical Centre, Dolphin Estate, Ikoyi, Lagos,  Dr. Ejike Ferdinand Orji and his wife, Dr. (Mrs) Ifeayinwa Grace Orji before a Lagos  High Court, Igbosere. The duo were docked on a three -count charge bordering on the said offence. The prosecutor, Babatunde Sunmonu told Justice Adedayo Akintoye that he has a three count -charge against the accused persons and prayed the court that the charge be read to the accused persons so that they can take their plea. Consequently, the judge granted his prayer and the charge was read to the defendants who both pleaded not guilty to the charge. Following their not guilty plea, the prosecutor asked the court for a trial date and requested that the defendants be remanded in prison custody pending their trial. However, counsel to the defendant, K.C. Okho told the court that he has a bail application which had been served on the prosecutor and appealed to the court to allow him move same. Justice Akintoye granted bail to the two accused persons in the sum of N500, 000 with two sureties The judge further ruled that the sureties must be persons that are gainfully employed with evidence of three years tax payment to the Lagos state government. While releasing the defendants to their lawyer, Justice Akintoye gave them till June 3 to perfect their bail conditions else they would be remanded in prison custody. Doctor Orji is facing trial for allegedly using a saw to cut open a Plaster of Paris (PoP) on his patient’s leg, sometimes in September, 2018 and was accused of wounding Somitochukwu Ezi-Ashi, 16, while using the saw on him. Orji was also charged with endangering his patient’s life. The defendant was arrested following a petition by Mr and Mrs. Isioma Ezi-Ashi, who claimed that the defendant did an orthopaedic operation on their son without their consent. The prosecutor added that after the operation, the victim complained of discomfort and asked that the PoP be relaxed, but the defendant refused, resulting in the teenager becoming unconscious. He was subsequently, rushed to Reddington Hospital on Victoria Island, where after being taken to the theatre, it was discovered that the defendant sawed off the PoP and damaged the muscles in the lower part of the boy’s leg, his foot and toes. “It was a major struggle to save the boy’s life,” the prosecutor said, adding that Ezi-Ashi has been flown to the US for further medical attention. But, the defendant’s counsel, K.C. Okho, prayed the court to discountenance the allegations, as it was premature for the prosecution to go into the merits of the case. Meanwhile, Justice Akintoye has adjourned the matter till Monday, 3 June for further direction.