Ukpono Ukpong, Abuja At last, luck has finally shone on the people of Umunya and Awkuzu communities in Uyi local government of Anambra state as the Federal Government effectively revived the stalled provision of infrastructural facilities at the Federal Sites and Services Scheme over the weekend. In furtherance to demonstrate the resolve of the FG to address housing issues bedeviling the nation, the Umunya/Awkuzu communities witnessed and celebrated the revival of the project in fanfare and pageantry. Recall, the Minister of Power Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola had earlier approved the deployment of public private partnership agreement with the Association of Allottees of Federal Sites and Services Scheme, Umunya/Awkuzu, to provide basic infrastructure on the site. The Minister represented by the Director Highways, Construction and Rehabilitation, Engr. Yemi Oguntominiyi at the flag off ceremony over the weekend, recalled that the project which was in the pipeline since 1987, had acquired a large piece of land measuring about 236 hectares at Awkuzu, Section A, for the purpose of developing the National Housing Programme. 2,800 plots were allocated to members of the public since 1993 but due to paucity of funds the site had remained undeveloped. Speaking earlier, the Chairman of the Board of Trustee, Association of Allottees, Col. Michael Onuorah rtd. applauded the efforts made by the Hon. Minister to ensure the project came alive and proudly declared that the allottees would finally actualize their housing dreams. Col. Onuorah rtd. stated that the Association is poised to deliver a modern and befitting estate that would be the envy of all. He therefore sought for the cooperation from all stakeholders to ensure a hitch free process during the site construction. Also present at the flag off ceremony was His Royal Highness, Sir Kris Onyekweluje (Eze Nya 1) Umunya with his cabinet members. In his address, Sir Kris Onyekweluje commended the efforts put in by the Hon. Minister and the Association of the Allottees and further brought to fore issues of concerns he would love the government to address, in order to stem youth restiveness in the communities. He pledged his undying support and that of his subjects to the laudable initiative. Benefits derivable from the project includes infrastructural development such as houses, roads services and electricity, water supply, drainage, hospitals and schools; J ob creation for mechanics, technicians, builders, masons, artisans and building materials vendors; Services to new estates and new businesses will develop in the area; Increase in the national housing stock translating to economic boom in the area and this will help to stem rural/urban migration.