By Samuel Luka, Bauchi There is every likelihood that the Bauchi state Governor-elect, Sen. Bala Mohammed will appoint the state Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Hamza Akuyam as the secretary to the state government as soon as he takes the oath of office on May 29. A source close to the PDP hinted that the appointment which will be announced on the day of the inauguration is to ensure power balance and equity considering that the governor-elect is from the Bauchi south and the deputy governor-elect is from the north senatorial district, leaving the secretary to the state government must go to the central senatorial zone. “Already, the governor-elect has agreed with the arrangement and is comfortable with Hamza Akuyam as the SSG considering his wealth of administrative experience coupled with his doggedness as the chairman of the party in the last two years,” the source stated. Publicity Secretary of the PDP in the state, Yayanuwa Zainabari, who confirmed the move described it as a welcome development considering the fact that the chairman worked tirelessly for the electoral victory of the party in the last governorship election. He added that the decision of the governor-elect was widely accepted by members of the party. Zainabari explained that “this has demonstrated that the governor-elect will not relegate the party to the background in the scheme of things and more loyal party men will be appointed to be part of his administration.” On the insinuations that the governor-elect will not be sworn in come May 29, Zainabari said that “it is easier to say that May 29 will not come than to say that Bala Mohammad Abdulkadir will not be sworn in. “The PDP won the gubernatorial election and its candidate was declared as the governor-elect and issued with certificate of return by INEC. Therefore, nothing will stop him being inaugurated as the next governor of Bauchi state on May 29 in sha Allah.” He appealed to the people of the state to remain hopeful of the PDP led administration, declaring that the people of the state will see a different approach to the act of governance within a few months of the of PDP government.