Tunde Opalana, Abuja Oyo State Governor- elect, Engr. Seyi Makinde has promised to hit the ground running with his well designed people- oriented programmes meant to bring governance closer to people at the grassroots immediately he was sworn-in on May 29 as Executive Governor. Makinde told Daily Timeshe will not  be distracted by litigation including petition at the tribunal against his election as governor on March 23, 2019. He said he could not be distracted by litigations because he won the election with a landslide margin and his party, the PDP won overwhelmingly other categories of election in the 2019 polls. The Peoples Democratic Party governor elect who was grateful to the entire people of Oyo State for giving him and the PDP, the mandate, promised the people a lease of life and new experience in governance under his administration. Makinde promised to build on development put in place by past administrations in the state while introducing new programmes that will give his administration unique identity. He said he was fully prepared for the task ahead and will not delay in unveiling his cabinet of eminently qualified men and women as well as assistants in various areas of governance. The governor- elect also promised not to bungle the opportunity given the PDP to govern Oyo State again. “Oyo State used to be a PDP State before we lost it to the opposition due to certain unresolved crisis but we thank God that we are now back in power. ” I am making a promise to re- entrench PDP back into the warm embrace of the good people of Oyo State who has given us this mandate. I and the entire members of the yet to be inaugurated cabinet will not disappoint the people. ” Our administration will give the people of Oyo State sense of belonging. We will give equal development to every part of the state, respect all arms of government, publis, religious and traditional institutions and administer dividends of democracy to everyone irrespective of political leanings or affiliations” Makinde, however, urged all hands to be on deck and be ready to work with the government in the next four years to take Oyo State back to its enviable position as ‘the Pacesetter State’.