By Mathew Dadiya, Abuja Governor of Benue state, Samuel Ortom has said that the anti-grazing law enacted by the state to curtail the incessant killings in the state is being implemented, adding that the law is not a respecter of groups, ethnic or tribe. The governor who said that the state was relatively peaceful because of the implementation of the anti-grazing law disclosed this on Monday, after a closed door meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Aso Rock Presidential Villa, Abuja. “The law is still in force in Benue state and we are implementing it. Everyone is free to establish ranches; we are not targeting any individual or group. Anyone, who wants to do cattle business should come to Benue and ranch, that we have land for it, but for open grazing we have no land.” He said that the law is being implemented and the government has arrested 400 people, irrespective of their ethnic background, whether Fulani, Igbos, Yoruba, Tiv, Idoma. “We have convicted 50 people for contravening various offenses and we have seized more than 2, 000 cattle. But, we have ensured no one has molested any cattle, nor killing any cattle. “Once your cattle are seized for open grazing by the livestock guard, within seven years when your cattle are quarantined if you don’t come to pay fines and redeem your cattle we auction them. So far, everyone that we have arrested people have come to redeem and so we have not had any cause to auction any cattle,” he explained. Reacting to reports indicating that his state was among 17 states that are insolvent as their Internally Generated Revenues (IGR) in 2018 were far below 10 per cent of their receipts from the federation account, the governor said he came to brief the President on the security situation in his state. However, Ortom disclosed that to be able to pay the N30, 000 minimum wage and meet other demands, loopholes will be blocked. “The plan is to look inward and see how we can generate more funds, improve on our internally generated revenue, block some leakages and see how we can cut down cost of governance and see where that will take us. One thing is that I believe in dialogue and I am very transparent with my finances, they are there for everyone to see. “I have been very cordial with workers in Benue state. For me, if I have my way they should even earn more than N30, 000 if the resources are there; they deserve it, we go to the same market and so we know the cost of living and other things are involved. “The challenge is whether the resources will be there. I believe that we will look for ways and I believe it is not only Benue state, there are about 17 states…all together maybe at governors’ forum, there will be away to get out of it,” Ortom added. The governor said since Nigeria is a federation, there must be synergy between states and the federal government to be able to surmount the security challenges and to be able to saveguard lives and properties. Reacting to the situation on Katsina Ala Road, the governor said, all the stakeholders in the state are willing to corporate to address insecurity situation, but for one notorious criminal “Gana,” who was trained by Boko Haram and has continued to terrorize the state. “He is the one instrumental to the kidnappings happening between Benue and Taraba states. All forms of criminality – armed robbery, assassinations and so on. The community too have given up because as at today, the three local governments of Katsina Ala, Logo and Ukum are not safe. “No educational, farming, commercial activities are going on, the Igbos that are major traders have vacated. With operation Y Stroke we are going to move against them and we believe we will be able to surmount them,” he assured.