Andrew Orolua, Abuja Justice John Tsoho of the Federal High Court, Abuja, on Monday struck out suit seeking to stop the Senate from removing  Senate President Bukola Saraki and his Deputy, Ike Ekweremadu from their offices, unless by a resolution backed up by not less that 73 votes of its members. The suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/936/2018 was filed  by the Incorporated Trustees of the Civil Society Observatory for Constitutional and Legal Compliance (CSOCLC), and has all the 109 Senators as defendants. Plaintiff had  in the suit urged the court to declare that Saraki and Ekweremadu cannot be removed from office as President of the Senate and Deputy President of the Senate unless pursuant to a resolution supported by the votes of not less than 73 members of the Senate. Delivering judgment on the suit Justice Tsoho, in his judgment held that, the newspaper reports showing threats of removing the Senate President and his deputy, which the plaintiff tendered as evidence in support of its case, are not admissible in law. Citing Supreme Court decisions in that direction, Justice Tsoho said, “There is no evidential value in the newspaper publications tendered by the plaintiff”. The Judge held that the plaintiff failed to show any credible evidence to persuade the court in any way to grant the declarative reliefs it sought from the court. “I hold that the plaintiff has failed to adduce credible and cogent evidence in support of its originating summons. “Accordingly, all the reliefs sought by the plaintiff cannot be granted due to lack of credible evidence. The suit, as filed by the plaintiff is hereby strike out”’ the Judge held. In the originating summons dated August 24, 2018,  the group argued that by the clear and extant provisions of section 50(2) (c) of the 1999 constitution, Saraki and Ekweremadu cannot be removed from their offices unless by a resolution of the Senate supported by the votes of not less than two-thirds majority of the members of the Senate. The plaintiff posed the following questions for the court’s determination, “Whether by the clear and extant provisions of section 50(2) (c) of the 1999 constitution, a President of the Senate and a Deputy President of the Senate such as Saraki and Ekweremadu can be removed from their said offices as President of the Senate and deputy President of the Senate respectively unless by a resolution of the Senate supported by the votes of not less than two-thirds majority of the members of the Senate. Whether by the combined provisions of sections 3(1) and (4) and (48) of the 1999 Constitution, the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria is not comprised of 109 members and whether two-thirds majority of the 109 members of the Senate is not comprised of 73 members. Whether the 1st and 2nd defendants can be removed from office as President of the Senate and Deputy President of the Senate respectively unless pursuant to a resolution supported by the votes of not less than 73 members of the Senate”. In a 11- paragraph supporting affidavit to the originating summons deposed to by ThankGod Ubani, stated that some All Progressives Congress (APC) members of the Senate connived with the Executive arm of government and security agencies to harass Saraki and Ekweremadu with the motive to illegally remove them from office. Ubani averred that, “On the first day, they planned to illegally and unlawfully remove the 1st and 2nd defendants from office by trying to prevent them from coming to the National Assembly so they could be removed in their absence”.