Amaka Agbu, Port Harcourt In order to drive rapid development in the Niger Delta region using electricity as a catalyst, the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has initiated a study to kick-start work on a regional power pool and industrialization project. NDDC acting Managing Director, Prof. Nelson Brambaifa, who stated this in Port Harcourt, during a meeting with officials of Income Electrix and a consulting consortium from Germany and Singapore, said that the commission is determined to stimulate industrial growth in the Niger Delta region. Prof. Brambaifa, represented by the NDDC acting Executive Director, Projects, Dr. Samuel Adjogbe observed that activities in the Niger Delta region revolved almost exclusively around oil and gas business. “We have looked at some indicators and it is obvious that the power requirement for industrial growth in the region is not available. So, we need to make a deliberate effort to set up projects that can boost power and attract investors to the region,” he said. The NDDC boss explained that the objective was to create three industrial parks in each of the nine states of the Niger Delta region, adding that the essence of the project was to tap the abundant gas resources in the region for electricity. “Because of the few investors in the region, they are compelled to pay high electricity tariffs. We must begin to pay a more serious attention to power which is a major driver in the economy,” he added. The acting managing director emphasized that power was the key enabler of economic growth in the region, stating that “the success of our collective mandate to develop the Niger Delta depends on how much we are able to make the region the hub of socio-economic activities and tourism in Nigeria.” Prof. Brambaifa said the commission was fully focused on diversifying the region’s economy from its over-reliance on oil and gas, stressing the need to make the Niger Delta region an investment destination. He noted that the project had the capacity to provide four million direct jobs because the industrial parks would create a chain of activities in the region and further affirmed that the power pool project, which was a collaborative effort between the NDDC, the state governments and donor agencies would help provide adequate power that would be subsidized for the industrial parks. In his remarks, the Group Chief Strategy Officer for Income Electrix, Chima Omeike re-stated the need to create alternative sources of revenue and create development and investment opportunities in the Niger Delta region. “Electricity is a catalyst that provides the enabling environment for industrial growth. The investments in the power project will aid industrialization. We have looked at some indicators and it is obvious, that the power requirement for industrial growth in the region is not available. “So, we need to make deliberate effort to set up projects that can boost power and attract investors to the region,” Omeike said.