…Dedicates anniversary to memory of  fallen heroes. Patrick Okohue, Lagos The Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams, has described the Senate’s approval of June 12 as Nigeria’s Democracy Day as  victory for democracy, even as he dedicated the glory of the day to the memories of those he described as Nigeria ‘s fallen heroes and heroines. Adams, who is away on  a two-week official assignments to  Europe, in a statement signed by his Special Assistant on Media, Kehinde Aderemi, said with the new date, memories of those that put their lives on the line will continue to linger. Adams in the statement said, “Let me begin by commending the leadership of the Senate for making June 12 the official day for our democracy. Lies, they say, may endure for long; however, truth will definitely catch up with it one day.” “Thursday’s approval of June 12 as democracy day is a watershed in the annals of our democratic experience. It has vindicated us, the living heroes of this democracy, and to other prominent Nigerians that paid the supreme price by putting down their lives for us to have this democracy.” Adams, said the Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) has been celebrating  the June 12 anniversary annually for the past 20 years, saying  the belief and struggle of the leaders of the socio cultural group in democracy have never been in vain. “Every year, the OPC under my leadership, gather at the Excellence Hotel, Ogba, Lagos, to celebrate June 12 as our democracy day” . “One of the reasons for the annual gathering is to tell the Federal Government that June 12 should be made our democracy day. “Today, it is heart-warming that the Senate has approved June 12, making it the official day for Nigeria’s democracy. It is our victory, it is the victory of the democrats, and it shows that the struggle of all our late heroes and heroines are not in vain. “ Adams, however, urged the Federal Government to also make policies that will make democracy work for Nigeria and Nigerians. “What happened by the annulment of June 12, 1993 election was an enduring wound inflicted on Nigerians, but today, with this development, the wound is gradually healing as a result of the milestone  recorded by the announcement last year by the Presidency that June 12 should be made the nation’s democracy day. “The approval by the Senate is a clear manifestation of our desire to make democracy work for Nigeria and Nigerians. More importantly, the Federal Government, must at all times, consider the yearnings of Nigerians as in  the case of the June 12, and develop a strategy that will make the entire nation progress.” “I think President Muhammadu Buhari can make the best use of  his new stand on  true federalism and restructuring, to champion the cause. As I have been saying, Nigeria’s problems can only be solved with true federalism. “Some of the problems affecting our nation, especially, insecurity can be addressed through true federalism. The security situation in the country should be addressed holistically” Adams said. The Federal Government last week said that the May 29 handing over date will have a low-key inauguration, but the full activities will be done on June 12.