Henry Omunu, Abuja Support groups that campaigned for President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election in 2019 are unhappy over the reappointment of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele for another term five years by the President. This was disclosed on Wednesday, by a House of Representatives member, Rep. Mohammed Gudaji while briefing journalists House correspondents in Abuja. Rep. Gudaji, who says he is a member of the support groups and a staunch backer of the President, said that the support groups are convinced beyond doubts that Buhari was misled by a cabal to re-appoint Emefiele against his anti-corruption principle. According to Gudaji, the support groups believe that the CBN governor is culpable in the corruption allegations made against the Jonathan administration, alleging that they have documents incriminating Emefiele in the sleaze. He said that the re-appointment came as a big shock to the support groups, who were hopeful that the President would appoint someone with credibility and integrity like him as the new CBN governor in place of Emefiele. The lawmaker therefore, declared that in re-appointing Emefiele for a second term, the President has made the costliest mistake of his administration, advising that if it was possible the President should reverse the appointment. “We are going to the Next Level and we believe we are fighting corruption. Those of us in Buhari support campaign organization are surprised by the re-appointment of Emefiele as CBN governor. “Emfiele was appointed by former President Jonathan and we know what happened; the corruption, the Dasukigate scandal, the Diezani and Nenadi Usman corruption cases. Who was releasing the money? It was the CBN under Emefiele. “After Emefiele had served his five years, we thought he should go and then be investigated. He should not have been reappointed,” the lawmaker said. Furthermore, he alleged that the economy went under under Emefiele, who took over as CBN governor when the exchange rate was N180 to one dollar, but under him it skyrocketed to nearly N500 to the dollar and presently, N360 to the dollar, stressing that there has not been any significant improvement in the economy with Emefiele as the CBN helmsman. Gudaji said further that “the President is a man of integrity. We have confidence in him. How could he reappoint Emefiele? I am advising him, if there is an opportunity he should reverse the appointment of Emefiele.” He confirmed that the support groups passed the resolution to oppose the re-appointment of Emefiele after series of meetings and blamed close aides to the President of frustrating of frustrating the objectives of the support groups in engineering the sack of Emefiele and appointing Suleiman Barau, a deputy governor as his successor. “We had concluded the arrangement that the CBN needs new people with fresh ideas and other people with the requisite credentials and integrity be brought on-board to re-jig the economy, but some elements around him (Buhari) went behind to convince him to do otherwise,” he asserted.