By John Ndu National President, Onitsha Improvement Union (OIU), Sir Chike Ekweogwu, has hailed the Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Nn’emeka Alfred Achebe, for the Doctor of Science conferred on him by Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka. The conferment was at the 13th Convocation ceremonies of Unizik held at the institution’s Ceremonial Grounds. Ekweogwu, who doubles as President-General in an interview shortly after the confinement in Awka, described the honour as “well deserved’’, in view of his positive contributions to development on Onitsha and indeed Anambra State. “The award is clear testimony of the good works of the Obi of Onitsha in uplifting the living standards of the Onitsha society and the south east in general. “The award is overlong due as he has been on the throne for about 10 years now. He is one of the most renowned of traditional rulers, east of the Niger,’’ Ekweogwu said. He also noted that some other universities outside Anambra had in the past, honoured him in similar fashion. “I think Achebe attained the pinnacle of his profession while he worked in Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria (Shell Nigeria) in various capacities and now also in the traditional institution as Igwe,’ he added.’ Igwe Achebe is currently, Chairman Anambra State Traditional Rulers Council. Obi Achebe was born in Onitsha on May 14, 1941, the first child of Akunne Anthony Chinwuba, and Chukwuebuka Winifred Ogbenyeanu, Achebe. He is a direct descendant of Ezechima, the founding monarch of Onitsha Ado N’Idu. Igwe Achebe ascended the throne on May 14, 2002, as the 21st Obi of Onitsha, following a tradition that has been unbroken for more than 500 years. Early in life, Obi Achebe had sound preparation for life through his education and family upbringing. After primary and secondary schools in Nigeria, he gained admission into the prestigious Stanford University in California, USA, in 1963 where he took a bachelor’s degree in chemistry. He also took a Master’s degree in Business Administration in the equally famous Columbia University in New York City. In 1979, he attended the maiden Senior Executive Course of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies in Kuru, near Jos. Following a brief working experience in the U.S., Obi Achebe returned to Nigeria in 1972 to begin a long, varied and fulfilling career with the Shell Nigeria and the Royal Dutch Shell Group. Barely nine years after joining the company, Obi Achebe was appointed to the board of directors of Shell Nigeria as General Manager for the Eastern Division of the Company in 1981. On his retirement from Shell Nigeria in 1996, Obi Achebe was appointed to Shell International, London, where he effectively acted as `Ambassador at Large’’ for the Shell Group on Nigerian matters. In that capacity, he travelled and lectured widely in all continents, including addresses to parliamentary committees in the European Union (EU), U,S., UK, Irish Republic, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Besides his long tenure as director of Shell Nigeria, Obi Achebe was also, during 1985 – 87, a director of several other Shell companies in the UK, the Netherlands, Ghana, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, The Gambia, Liberia and Angola. Outside Shell, Obi Achebe held positions on the governing councils of the Petroleum Training Institute, Effurun, and the Nigerian Employers’ Consultative Association. In corporate life, Obi Achebe, was chairman of Diamond Bank Plc., and the Universal Insurance Plc,, and is currently chairman of Unilever Nigeria PLC, Intafact Beverages Limited (SAB-Miller), and Omak Maritime Ltd. On two occasions, Obi Achebe served the nation on panels of enquiry in the petroleum sector. In 1976, he was a member of the Administrative Panel of Enquiry on the Port Harcourt Refinery. In 2004, President Obasanjo called on him to be Chairman of the Presidential Enquiry into the February 2003 Fuel Shortage in the country. In 2005, Obi Achebe was a delegate to the National Political Reform Conference representing the traditional rulers of South-Eastern states. He became Chairman of the Committee on Environment and Natural Resources Management Reforms and coordinated the traditional rulers’ forum at the Conference.