Isaac Oguntoye – Lagos Call light skinned and cute looking cerebral legal practitioner, Dr. Kayode Ajulo a child of destiny and you will sure not be mistaking as its evident his life has been so tailored. Growing under the care of a father who ran a bookshop and a seamstress mother, little Kayode was exposed to lot of great people, mostly giants in the legal profession who patronized his father. As little as Kayode was however, he admired these individuals, took them as his role models just as he vowed to also become a noble personality in the society when he grew, and as fate would be faire to him, then little Kayode is today not just making great exploits in the legal world but with his impactful living, contribution to growth of the nation, his inspiring personality has made him nothing short of a noble and popular individual. Aside of sitting atop one of the most flourishing law chambers with unarguably the most preferred ambience in the federal capital city, and other offices in some countries, he’s risen to becoming national scribe of a leading political party in the country just as he’s at various times been saddled with national assignments. The most recent of such assignment is making him a member of the committee set up to find a last solution to the incessant crisis between ASSU and the Federal government. Also, as far as humanitarian work is concerned, the activist, through his foundation, Egalitarian Mission Africa, has protected the rights of many across Africa. With all he’s got his hands into and his level of dynamism,  he’s endeared to many who have become his teeming fans across the society, most especially in his home state, Ondo state, where he’s regarded as ambassador for greatness. Meanwhile, going by information reaching us from dependable sources, the highly influential dude, Kayode may have come under serious pressure from his state as far as the 2020 gubernatorial election is concerned. Towards the just concluded general elections, it will be recall the dude was rumored to be interested in gunning for the Senate but his involvement in the election ended at the instance of President Buhari who was seeking another term in office. Ajulo contributed to Buhari’s re-election by being engine room of a high ranking Buhari support group, Forward With Buhari. He was however thereafter invited to join APC Presidential Legal Team as counsel to provide a robust legal defense to President Muhammadu Buhari in the ongoing Presidential Election Petition Tribunal. As it is, information filtering in has it that some power brokers in All Progressives Party are allegedly zeroing on him as the Flag bearer of the party in Ondo State come next year as preparatory works have begun in earnest across party lines for a new Governor after the fate of the incumbent seemed to have been sealed. Sources alleged the party’s leadership in Abuja is interested in him based on his popular figure and high wired connection across the strata of the society as well as his ingenuity that could deliver what they want. However, privileged information has it the man at the centre stage does not seem to be interested as all he’s said to have as priority is taking his legal practice to the next level and ultimately get to the enviable peak of his profession before considering any call of service in his State of origin.