Esther Taiwo Dean School of Transportation, Lagos State University (LASU) Ojo, Lagos, Prof S.G Odewunmi, has  described the quest by Adeniran Ogunsanya Cillege of Education, (AOCOED) Otto, Ijanikn Lagos to be converted to a university as a right peg in the right hole. Odewunmi , who was the guest lecturer at the 36th, 37th & 38th joint convocation of the College, spoke on “Teacher Education in a Knowledge Economy and Quest for University Status for Colleges of Education in Nigeria”. He said the quest for change in status is justified by the fact that the College has evolved from several changes like the growth of a beautiful butterfly. Such changes include from a Grade III Teachers Training College in 1958 to Grade II Teachers Training College to NCE awarding College in the 1970s and a Degree awarding in 1999 in collaboration with the University of Ado-Ekiti (now Ekiti State University, EKSU) and by 2009 consequent upon the approval of the National Universities Commission (NUC) full time degree programmes commenced. Any institution with such a rich pedigree has no doubt paid its dues and it should therefore be allowed to complete its full metamorphosis.Provost of the College, Dr. Aina Ladele,  said the college has the culture of using available resources to effectively address challenges of teacher education in the society. With our limited resources, we have successfully established a citadel of learning, teaching, research and community services for the generation, dissemination, preservation and application of knowledge in tandem with our mission. The effort has earned us a reputation of a leading teacher’s Institute where all students are challenged to achieve the highest levels of intellectual and personal growth; to promote sustainable development as well as contribute purposeful and ethical service to mankind,” she said. Dr. Ladele however lamented that one of the major challenges facing the institution is funding as she called on private individuals and business organisations to support the government in funding tertiary institutions. Funding of tertiary institutions should not be left in the hands of the government alone. Scholars have drawn attention to the need for privileged business organisations and individuals to support tertiary education in achieving society’s sustainable goals. I add my voice to theirs that not until the buoyant companies and affluent individuals in the society partner with Nigerian tertiary education institutions substantially can we begin to achieve the objectives of tertiary institution,” she noted.