By John Ndu Outgoing Senator representing Anambra Central, Sen. Victor Umeh, has urged all to always take time off to care of their health. In a tribute at funeral ceremonies of late Patrick Aniunoh, he observed that many human beings were mere walking corpses, saying that people should use every opportunity to affect lives positively because “life is short’’. Umeh in an outpouring of tributes at Umuoji, the homestead of the former House member, who represented Onitsha South constituency, said that Aniunoh was full of life while he served during his first tenure. “He was warming up to contest for a second tenure, when he took ill and died. “No one knows when he or she will die. While we are still breathing, look for someone in need and help the person,” he said. Acting Head, Personnel Management, Idemili South, Mr. Azubuike Obianyo, who worked with Aniunoh when he was Deputy Transition Committee Chairman, Onitsha South, described him as philanthropist and good listener. Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to Governor Willie Obiano on Political Matters, Mr. Osy Anadi, a childhood friend of Aniunoh, said he lived a good life, even though God had chosen to call him home at his prime. Deacon Anthony Obi said: “Death will come, live careful life; mind what you eat and do your best to help humanity. I pray that the Lord will console the family of my friend Paddy”. A renowned funeral undertaker, Sir Kevin Chukwumaobi, Managing Director, APAMS, described Aniunoh as a great man, who carried out many projects in his Onitsha South constituency. “He was a great man. He helped a lot of people in his constituency. He awarded scholarships to many students during his tenure. He died too young but God knows the best.’’ Mr. Jeffery Ubah, SSA on N20 million Choose Your Project Initiative, described `Paddy’ as great politician, quintessential figure, who enjoyed  helping the less privileged saying. “he will be missed by many’’. House of Assembly member-elect for Awka North, Mr. John Nwokoye, said the death Aniunoh was rude shock to him. The three children of late Aniunoh – Nn’emeka, Chijioke and Childimma described their father as the best father ever. Governor Obiano, members of Anambra House of Assembly, Idemili South and many well-wishers attended the funeral.