Moses Oyediran, Enugu The Catholic Bishop of Nsukka Diocese, Most Rev. Prof. Godfrey Igwebuike Onah, has expressed delight at the commitment of Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi’s administration in entrenching peace and good governance in Enugu state as well as ensuring that infrastructure is spread across the state through its rural development policy. Bishop Onah, who spoke during a thanksgiving Mass at St. Theresa’s Cathedral Nsukka, organized by a support group for Gov. Ugwuanyi, Gburugburu Support Group (GSG) for his victory at the polls, described the governor’s reelection as “a prayer answered.” The cleric stated that the people of Enugu state are happy with Gov. Ugwuanyi and enjoined them to sustain their support for his administration, appealing against any act that could undermine the progress of the state. He stated that “we have seen good governance in Ugwuanyi because he has spread infrastructural development in all the areas of the state through his rural development programmes and Nsukka happens to be a great beneficiary of his administration’s noble gesture.” The bishop therefore, assured the governor of the people’s unceasing prayers considering the enormous challenges involved in governance, stressing that “we are very happy with him, there is no prayer said in this church that goes in vain.” Speaking at the church event, the Leader of the group, Mrs. Josephine Nwokedike, extolled the leadership qualities of Gov. Ugwuanyi, adding that the virtues have distinguished him as a great achiever and “an epitome of goodness.” Mrs. Nwokedike maintained that the governor is a humble, God-fearing, seasoned administrator and prudent manager of scarce resources, disclosing that the mass was organized to thank God for his victory in the last general election and ask God to continue to bless his administration with the ability, and commitment to provide more democracy dividends to the people of the state in the next four years. She therefore, re-affirmed the group’s unwavering support to the present administration in Enugu state and urged the people to continue to support and pray fervently for the governor and his team to do more for the state.