By  Mathew Dadiya, Abuja *Wants return to true federalism *Says nobody will suffer social exclusion Despite cries and lamentations by citizens that the Nigerian economy has dwindled under the President Muhammadu Buhari administration, the President has maintained that the country is on a renewed growth trajectory. President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday called for return to true federalism where every component state uses its resources to develop their state. The President said this on Friday after receiving the Progressive Governors Forum award alongside eight other governors of the All Progressive Congress (APC) for “standing with the party since 2013” at the State House Conference Hall, Abuja. Buhari noted that the South West is united because it has a well-designed development agenda which he wants Nigeria to learn from. According to him, economic growth and competitiveness of nations depend on the harmonious collaboration of all tiers of government, particularly in a federal set-up, adding that “it will be belabouring the point to say that true federalism is necessary at this juncture of our political and democratic evolution.” He called on all Nigerians to continue to have faith in the country, thanking them for their continued patience and sacrifices towards moving the nation forward and assured that his administration would do everything within its powers to sustain the current economic recovery efforts. “We will continue to reinforce our macro-economic policies to achieve sustainable economic stability and growth. We will also continue to ensure the growth comes along with more jobs and a fair and just distribution of the national wealth. Your continued cooperation in this regard is very vital. “At a time when some few privileged individuals and groups have chosen to exploit and manipulate the ethnic and religious fault lines for seeking personal and partisan advantage, we need to build bridges across the different divides and instill faith in the unity and indivisibility of one Nigeria,” Buhari stated. Also, he appealed to state governments to be strong pillars of support for the anti-corruption agenda as well as continued support for the programmes of social protection, school feeding programme and other policies geared towards human capital development. “Going forward, we must all work towards building a socially cohesive society in which the resources of the country work for all. We will continue to apply public funds in such a way that no section of the country or segment of the population suffers social exclusion,” he added. The President while also acknowledging that Nigeria is on a renewed growth trajectory, assured that his administration will do everything within its powers to sustain the current economic recovery efforts. Recalling how the APC was formed, the President noted that while the “South East and South South were facing strong challenges, it was easier to woo the South West because it was more united.” Buhari and the other award recipients were presented with the awards at the banquet hall of the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum, organizers of the event, Gov. Rochas Okorocha of Imo state, said that “Buhari deserves the award for uniting the party’s stalwarts. “We are gathered for the love of our country, for admiration of an exalted captain in the person of President Muhammadu Buhari. We are here gathered for patriotic devotion of a leadership we consider visionary for which we are well pleased. “For every journey that has a beginning must have an end, the end of one government marks the beginning of another. I recalled vividly in 2014 when the merger struggle started with all my colleagues here, we were the very first few generals of President Buhari in the merging arrangements. “When we started many people never gave us a chance and many never believed in President Buhari especially the elites, except for the ordinary people on the streets. It was a tall order, it was a difficult arrangement, but we worked for victory not only for him, but for the party and the entire generation,” Okorocha asserted. State governors who also received awards include, Governors Kashim Shetima of Borno, Rochas Okorocha of Imo, Tanko Al- Makura of Nasarawa, Ibikunle Amosu of Ogun and Rauf Aregbesola of Osun. Others are Governors Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo state, Ibrahim Gaidam of Yobe state and the outgoing Chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) and Governor of Zamfara state, Abdulaziz Yari.