By Joseph Inokotong, Abuja President of the ECOWAS Commission, Jean Claude Brou on Wednesday reaffirmed the commitment towards strengthening its intervention mechanism in combating terrorism and other challenges bedeviling the region. He gave this assurance at the commencement of the 2019 First Ordinary Session of the ECOWAS Parliament in Abuja, where he highlighted areas of border crimes, inter-ethnic clashes, unemployment and migration as the focus of critical intervention programmes of the region. Brou said the commission would continue to collaborate with the ECOWAS Parliament to reinforce political development, governance and democracy across the region. “Working hand-in-hand and in synergy that we will achieve the objectives set by our founding fathers, that is a united and prosperous ECOWAS for the harmonious development of our people. “We will boost the cooperation, consultation and inter-institutional dialogue framework, through frequent conduct of meetings,” he stated and promised a renewed commitment to the implementation of joint programmes between the commission and the parliament, while hinting on the robust economic prospects for the region. In his address, Speaker of the ECOWAS Parliament, Mustapha Cisse Lo announced that the region had recorded some tremendous progress in its integration process, especially in the areas of reducing trade barriers and movement amongst member states. He however, disclosed that a lot of areas needed to be covered in enhancing free movement and economic activities across borders. “It is in this vein that we sought to distinguish our tenure by fighting against all impediments faced by our people along the corridors in our borders by ensuring all protocols are upheld,” he said. Lo therefore, called for synergy with the ECOWAS Commission to tackle these “chronic problems that have undermined the integration process.” The three-week long session will feature amongst other things, presentations of country reports, reports of standing and ad hoc committees as well as reports of the parliamentary fact-finding missions.