Chukwuemeke Iwelunmo After years of foot dragging, the Enugu state government has finally commenced the demolition of market and communication masts causing impediments to safety at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu. Daily Times reports that three communication masts and a community market were located at both ends of the runway, making it difficult for the smooth take off of aircrafts. Several calls from stakeholders for the state government to dismantle the masts and relocate the markets for safety purposes have gone unheeded, prompting the threat of temporarily closing the airport by the Minister of state for Aviation, Hadi Sirika. The safety impediments as listed by the minister include, a free trade zone, market, an abattoir and a radio mast all located at the center line and approach of the airport runway. Following the minister threat, the state executive council approved the immediate closure of Orie Emene Market, including the abattoir and the immediate removal of all illegal structures encroaching on the land belonging to the airport. In a statement, the state Commissioner for Information, Ogbuagu Anikwe said, “the state executive council had on October 12, 2018 approved funds for relocation of the state broadcast mast on the approach of the run way to Okpatu Hill (Ugwu Rerenkwu) in Udi Local Government Area but the implementation of this project has been hampered by the disruptive activities of some youth in the community.” Reacting to the directive by the Enugu state government, the minister applauded the steps taken by the state government to improve safety at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu. “We are happy to see that the Enugu state government has seen reason with the ministry to address safety concerns raised. We are appreciative that in the name of safety, the state executive council approved the immediate closure of Orie Emene Market (abattoir inclusive) to forestall any tragedy at the airport. “We are also happy that the council also ordered the immediate removal of all illegal structures encroaching on the land of the airport, radio mast of the state broadcasting service and free trade zone. “We however, would be extremely comfortable if compliance with the above directives from the state government is carried out as soon as possible to give us necessary allowance to carry out repairs as well as expansion and extension of the runway. “All these will better the lot of the Enugu Airport and improve safety a hundred fold,” Sirika assured.