Motolani Oseni The Association of Bureaux De Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON) has advised over 4,500 Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)-licenced Bureaux de Change (BDCs) to create or activate over 4,000 official/ corporate emails on its platform and stop use of Yahoo and Gmail for official communication. Briefing financial journalists on the development in Lagos, ABCON President, Alhaji (Dr.) Aminu Gwadabe said the advice followed a circular from the Other Financial Institutions (OFIs) Department of CBN, directing all OFIs including BDCs to adopt corporate e-mails for their communication with the apex bank. He said: “We are also glad to inform the gathering that over 1,000 BDCs in the South-west have been integrated with the new CBN Forex return rendition platform. In due course, our members in the other zones shall be integrated to achieve online real-time return rendition to CBN from the comfort of their offices. ABCON has created over 4,000 official emails on its platform  www.abconng.org  for its members to enhance compliance.” Gwadabe said ABCON proactiveness in the automation of its members’ operations, has paid off, as all BDCs now have opportunity to re-active their official e-mails on the ABCON platform. “ABCON advises all members to activate their emails on the automation platform to enable them to comply with the CBN circular. All members are to visit national and zonal secretariats for further enquiry and assistance, where necessary”, he added. The ABCON boss said the rising threats of cyber-security attacks on the financial system means that all stakeholders, including BDCs must be proactive to protect their data, businesses, reputation and overall operations from cyber attackers. He said that e-mails have remained the weakest link on cyber attacks and BDCs under his leadership will continue to upgrade their IT systems to ensure that they are ahead of the cybercriminals. Continuing, he said that banks, OFIs, digital wallets and remittance players are prime targets by cybercriminals seeking quick monetization of stolen credentials. “It is therefore important that we do not relent in our efforts at protecting this space and increasing public confidence in the financial system,” he said. Gwadabe backed the OFIs Department of CBN on the policy shift, agreeing with the regulator  that most cyber attacks involve the use of the web or internet-based emails to send malicious software or viruses that compromise the data and IT systems of organizations. This, he said, has an attendant negative impact on the confidentiality, integrity and availability of critical information assets. He urged OFIs with corporate e-mails to comply with the CBN directive by making regulatory submissions and communicating with the regulator via e-mails as the apex bank has restricted all web-based e-mails from its domain, adding that compliance is compulsory. Gwadabe advised BDC’s to comply swiftly with the CBN policy on corporate e-mails, adding that cyber attack can be launched through webmail and operators that are yet to integrate with the corporate e-mail may be at risk of losing huge capital or reputation, should there be a system attacks. He explained that the need to keep BDCs’ IT systems in line with global best practices prompted ABCON to launch its Live Run Automation Portal, which integrates operators’ IT with those of Nigeria Inter-bank Settlement System (NIBSS), Nigeria Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to improve the level of compliance of the BDCs with set regulations. Gwadabe said the world is going digital, and BDC operators under his leadership are committed to staying ahead of the competition by deploying time-tested technology to deliver effective services to customers, while also keeping an eye on the IT systems risks prevalent in today’s world.