Chukwuemeke Iwelunmo, Lagos The federal government has upgraded the Benin Airport to perform night flights and flights during low visibility with the installation of precision approach lighting system and instrument landing system category II, commissioned by the Minister of state for Aviation, Hadi Sirika. Sirika during the commissioning of the equipment at the Benin Airport said the Edo state Governor, Gowin Obaseki had expressed worries why aircrafts do not land at night, during bad weather, during low visibility and the non-availability of instrument landing system. “From now on, you have the instrument landing system which can allow pilots in reduced visibility and bad weather to be able to shoot on approach and land in Benin, just like they will do in London. And also, it is no longer closure from 6pm. The operational capability of the airport has improved with the installation of these equipment,” Sirika announced. The minister also said that the Federal Ministry of Transportation (Aviation) through the Nigeria Meteorological Services (NiMET) has constructed and donated a meteorological station to the University of Benin (UNIBEN). He hinted on the plan to construct a cargo terminal at the Benin Airport, adding that “here in Benin, we will site an agro-allied cargo terminal. We will soon commence civil works and the governor had promised the state’s participation.” Responding, Gov. Obaseki acknowledged the cordial relationship between the state and the federal government to partner on projects. “Benin Airport which was built over 60 years ago, is one of the oldest airports in the country because it was built in 1956. It is today being upgraded so that it can be ranked as an airport to match any other airport in this world by equipping it with the kind of instrument which a modern day airport should have.” “For you to have economic growth, you need to have the infrastructure. People must be able to come into your economy and leave freely. With these air transportation infrastructure, it will complement the efforts we are currently making in the area of agriculture, industrialization, tourism and culture and even education. “What it means for us is that there are no excuses. Once people know that you can get in and out of Benin, then it helps business,” Obaseki stated and expressed appreciation to the minister on the equipment donated to the University of Benin.