Tunde Opalana, Abuja Leadership tussle over the position of chairmanship of the African Action Congress (AAC) has pitched its Presidential candidate, Omoyele Sowore against former National Secretary, Mr. Leonard Nzenwa. Rising from the 3rd National Executive Council meeting of the party in Abuja on Monday , the party suspended Sowore over allegations bordering on, anti- party activities, financial misappropriation, allowing inflow of foreign funds into the party and personally retaining same in contravention of section 225(3)(4) of the 1999 Constitution . Sowore was further accused of usurpation of functions of all organs of the party, absconding from duty, etc. He was accused alongside eight other members of the party executive especially the Deputy National Chairman (Headquarters) of  inflow of illegal foreign funds into the party and personally retaining same . In a resolution signed by Dr. Innocent Nzenwa, Acting National Chairman and Abayomi Francis Olufemi, Deputy National Secretary, the party invoked NEC power under Article 52(k) of the Constitution of the party to suspend Sowore as National Chairman of the African Action Congress (AAC) for a period of 6 months beginning from 27th March, 2019. The party thereafter resolved that Mr.Leonard Nzenwa be  appointed as Acting National Chairman of the party pending the election of a substantial National Chairman or the Convention re-instates the suspended National Chairman. In a swift reaction to the news of his suspension, Sowore announced the expulsion of Leonard Nzenwa and other individuals for “financial impropriety and anti- party activities”. Sowore in a statement on Monday as the national chairman of the party said ” it has come to the notice of the office of the Chairman of the African Action Congress that a group of suspended members, induced by financial reasons and anti-progressive politics, gathered in Abuja today, 13th May, 2019, and purportedly held a NEC meeting. “These members, led by Leonard Nzenwa, former national secretary, who was suspended for financial impropriety and anti-party activities, have demonstrated by their actions that they have never been, and have never shared, the core beliefs that those of us in the African Action Congress hold. “Leonard Nzenwa is hereby expelled from the party, and the misguided individuals who participated in the Abuja meeting are suspended from the party until investigations reveal the extent of their involvement”.