Henry Omunu, Abuja The House of Representatives on Thursday resolved to invite President Muhammadu Buhari to brief the House on measures put in place by his administration to tackle the worsening state of insecurity in the country. Also, the House resolved to declare a state of emergency on security in Katsina State due to the activities of banditry. These resolutions by the House were passed sequel to the adoption of a motion raised under matter of urgent national importance by Rep. Ahmed Safana(APC/ Katsina) on the need for the Federal Government to intervene in the wanton killing of innocent persons by armed bandits in various states across the country. Leading the debate, Rep. Safana noted that the recent spate of attacks in his constituency has reached an alarming stage as the perpetrators of the acts continuously kill innocent persons and set homes ablaze while defenceless men and women are abducted to unknown destinations. According to the lawmaker, these killings have continued unabated and the bandits seem unstoppable and gave a specific instance at Gobirawa Village in Safana Local Government Area where the bereaved villagers were forced to abandon the corpses of their loved ones during a burial and were forced to scamper for safety when bandits launched a fresh offensive on the community. “These bandits who operate both at night and in broad daylight on motorbikes, parade sophisticated weapons, including AK-47 assault rifles and other dangerous weapons which they use in committing heinous crime against my constituents. “Despite persistent cries from the affected communities, the security operatives appear not being proactive, especially on security tip off and most times fail to respond promptly,” Safana said. House members who contributed to the debate on the motion expressed worries about the level of insecurity in the nation, saying that if rural areas are not safe for agriculture which the country relies on to feed its huge population, then Nigeria has become a failed state. They further declared that despite the attacks, no minister has been sacked for failing in the discharge of their responsibilities. Rep. Wale Raji, (APC/Lagos), stated that “drastic action should be taken on insecurity in the country because if rural areas are not safe for agriculture it will affect the diversification of the economy and investors cannot be attracted as well.” Another member, Rep. Babale Bashir questioned how bandits get sophisticated weapons to carry out their attacks, adding that “the security chiefs are majorly from the North, yet they have not been able to contain the insurgency in the country.” The House thereafter, through a voice vote, adopted the motion after few amendments on the earlier resolution were made in other to generalise the situation.