Nosa Akenzua, Asaba Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta state has challenged graduates of Nigerian universities to apply the knowledge gained to create a better and fulfilling future for themselves, their families and the society. The governor made the call at the weekend in an address he delivered at the 13th convocation ceremony of the Delta state University (DELSU), Abraka, where 4, 252 graduands for the 2017/2018 academic session received different academic certificates. “Hard work, commitment and perseverance are the hallmarks and defining features of any citizen who is prepared for the challenges of our modern times but fast-changing society and it is expected that graduates of our universities have to apply the same virtue as they move into the wider society where they will use the knowledge gained to create a better and fulfilling future for themselves, families and society in general. “Let me use this ceremony to draw the attention of everyone to the inarguably importance of education not only in the life of every individual, particularly, the youth but also in nation building, though capital intensive education undoubtedly, remains the bedrock for progress and sustainable development in any society,” Okowa said. According to him, the global labour market is becoming more competitive and demands for universities to re-invent their curricula in line with the dictates of the times as graduates should not be seekers of employment but employers of labour. “This is why every responsible government should always even in the face of economic downturns, strive to make funds available for the provision of education at all levels in the society,” the governor added, disclosing that his administration has always carried out its responsibilities of regular and prompt payment of salaries of staff, release of subventions and provision of infrastructure within the limits of available resources. While congratulating the graduates of the university, Gov. Okowa observed that the institution “has proved itself worthy in its commitments to the pursuit of its core mandate of research, teaching and learning.” Earlier, the pro-Chancellor and Chairman of the university’s Governing Council, Prof. Sam Oyovbaire had in an address, commended the management of the university for been fair and firm in line with academic best practices in the handling of matters relating to the discipline of staff and students. Also, the Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof. Victor Peretomode in his address, commended Gov. Okowa for his support to the university, disclosing that the institution has witnessed a phenomenal increase in students’ enrolment, an attestation to the high number of quality academic programmes that enjoy full accreditation from the National University Commission (NUC). “It also depicts how highly rated our university has become, thus making it a university of first choice to many candidates seeking university admission,” Prof. Peretomode added. The all-time overall best graduating student of the university, Abel Jonathan, an orphan with a cumulative grade point average of 4.91 was given automatic employment by the state government and awarded scholarship to further his studies