Tunde Opalana, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has alerted of an alleged  fresh plot by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to use some elements in the Police to hound and incarcerate our victorious Osun state governorship candidate, Senator Ademola Adeleke, all in the bid to browbeat him to relinquish his mandate. The PDP claimed it has a new information of how the APC, having seen that there is no way it can stop Senator Adeleke at the courts, now seeks to forcefully hound him into a police station where he will be incarcerated and put out of circulation before the determination of the matters in court. Apart from executing this script of the APC, the party further claimed that “these elements in the police have no other reason for continuously hounding Senator Adeleke, as he is already in court for all the frivolous allegations preferred against him. “If they truly want Senator Adeleke for any new issue connected with the charges for which he is already in court, it should present such before the court instead of resorting to bullying”. It recalled that the PDP had earlier alerted of threats to Senator Adeleke’s life. The party insisted that these  threats have not only continued unabated but have heightened with this renewed hounding by these elements in the police, who are being used by the APC. “Our party cautions that Nigerians are not ready to accept any excuse from anybody should Senator Adeleke suddenly becomes a victim of accidental discharge, sudden disappearance or failed health. They know whom to hold responsible. ” The APC should end this siege on Senator Adeleke and accept the fact that he has the mandate of the people of Osun state as their governor and no form of machination will subvert this reality”, said PDP spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan in a statement on Sunday. The PDP therefore charged the Inspector General of Police, Adamu Mohammed to rein-in his men on issues related to Senator Adeleke’s determination to retrieve his governorship mandate, which was stolen by the APC.