Our Reporter A leading pro-democracy and civil rights organization, the Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) has described as criminal and evil for the Buhari to dialogue the rampaging bandits in Zamfara state and with armed Fulani militia. It opposed the plan by the federal government to appease the bandits and Fulani herdsmen with N100 billion of tax payer’s money under the guise of setting up cattle ranches for a totally privately owned business of herding. Besides, the rights group also carpeted the acting Inspector General of Police, Adamu Mohammed, for gleefully announcing the ‘truce’ reached in Zamfara to chase out bandits between the federal government’s delegation made up largely of Hausa/Fulani Moslem dominated internal security team of the current administration and the Miyetti Allah cattle Owners Association which it says supports the activities of armed Fulani herdsmen. HURIWA expressed disappointment that a supposed chief law enforcement officer of the country can descend so low as to beg persons suspected to have being carrying out persistent armed banditry and attacks across Zamfara, Kaduna, Niger and Katsina to stop attacking Nigerians when it is the constitutional obligation of the police to enforce law and order, and bring all suspects to face the consequences of their crimes. In a media statement issued over the weekend against the backdrop of the purported meeting between the government and the leadership of Miyetti Allah Cattle Owners Association, the rights group said the only possible reason the current administration could enter into dialogue with armed bandits is because the offenders share the same ethno-religious affiliations with the holders of the top security portfolios in the nation. It therefore, charged the administration to harken to public outcry and rejig the leadership of the country’s security architecture that is presently dominated by persons from a particular section of Nigeria, in clear violation of the federal character principle. According to HURIWA, the federal government practically offered monumental bribes to the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) by offering it N100 billion over two years to stop kidnapping in the country. “This satanic meeting was a closed door event which lasted for over five hours as monetary negotiations according to a source dragged on until N100 billion was accepted. “MACBAN had said it would take nothing less than N160 billion. But, briefing newsmen after the meeting the exhausted minister said the gathering is part of steps we have taken to tackle insecurity and clashes between herdsmen and farmers. “You should not forget the fact that we have extended the meeting as a regional one when the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) hosted a conference on this. “General Danbazau further affirmed as follows, that these issues were discussed, and part of the dialogue was to provide a national action plan on security challenges and solutions by all members of the ECOWAS and to present it to the commission for consideration. That is the main reason we have come to Kebbi state, to dialogue with leaders of herdsmen as part of the process,” HURIWA added.