…Kokori now Labour Institute’s chairman not NSITF …Asks parties to remain calm as Ngige inaugurates board today Mathew Dadiya, Abuja The lingering crisis between the Minister of Labour and Employment, Sen. Chris Ngige, and the leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) over the chairmanship of the board of Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) seemed to have come to an end as the Presidency on Sunday clarified on the issue. The Daily Times recalls that NLC had last Wednesday, staged a protest to the residence of the Minister and were alleged to have used two petrol tankers to block the gate of the house, and eventually they were attacked by suspected thugs allegedly on the order of the Labour minister and the union thereafter, issued a statement directing its members to attack the minister wherever he is seen. But the presidency, in a proactive action through the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina on Sunday, asked both parties to maintain calm. Adesina stated that the NSITF is a hundred percent Federal Government of Nigeria owned insurance parastatal, under the supervision of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, designed for the role of insuring workers (employees) in the public and private sectors. The organisation, according to Adesina, is empowered by law to implement the Employee Compensation Act (ECA) 2010 with mandate to insure workers and pay them compensation for accidents, deaths and injuries in the course of work. The Presidency said it has noted with deep concern and regrets, the events that culminated in a skirmish at the private residence of the Hon. Minister of Labour and Employment, and condemns it, in its entirety. However, in the spirit of reconciliation, the Presidency appealed for calm from the NLC and the Ministry of Labour and Employment officials, assuring that there were ongoing efforts to reconcile the NLC leadership with the Ministry of Labour and Employment, “led by their Minister who has doggedly been fighting the cause of Nigerian workers whenever their issue is discussed by government.” “All actions taken by the Honourable Minister of Labour and Employment towards the resuscitation and repositioning of this ailing agency, including the Administrative Panel of Inquiry into the affairs of NSITF and the suspension of the inauguration of the board in 2018 were part of the special work plan approved for the Honourable Minister by Mr. President,” it added. Explaining further, the presidential spokesman said that the appointment of the Chairman of this board, which was in consonance with Sec. 4(a) of the NSITF Act CAP N88 of 2004, was also approved by Mr. President since 23rd July, 2018 on the recommendation of the Hon. Minister. On the chairmanship position of the NSITF board, the presidency said that Mr. Austin Enejamo-Isire, a Chartered Accountant, Fellow, Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) and renowned Insurance expert, Senior Member, Chartered Institute of Insurance of Nigeria (CIIN), Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) and Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN), was approved by Mr. President for this position and not Mr. Frank Kokori as being argued by the NLC. Also approved by Mr. President were the Managing Director and three Executive Directors who had assumed duties since 18 April 2017, Adesina clarified. “Others also approved as Non-Executive Directors are two (2) members to represent the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), two members to represent the Nigerian Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) and one (1) member each to represent the Central Bank of Nigeria and the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment. Members of this board are to be formally inaugurated   at 9 a.m. on Monday, May 13, 2019 by the Hon. Minister of Labour and Employment at the Banquet Hall of the Presidential Villa, Aso Rock, Abuja,” he stated. He stressed that, “Comrade Frank Kokori , our respected veteran labour leader, has Mr. President’s  immense respect and has also been appointed on the recommendation of the Hon. Minister of Labour and Employment to chair the board of Michael Imoudu National Institute for Labour Studies (MINILS),  a diploma awarding labour institution.” The Presidency acknowledged that the latest of the minister’s fight for the cause of the Nigeria workers was the enactment of the new National Minimum Wage Act 2019. The presidency noted that the NSITF was “bedevilled and riddled with corruption between 2012 – 2015,” which resulted in a colossal loss and mismanagement of about N48 billion out of the total N62 billion contributions during the said period. These were contributions by the Employers – viz government and the private sector for payment of compensation to workers and even to Employers for loss of man-hours by their workers, the presidency stated. This fraud, the presidency said, has been investigated by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the last Chairman and some members of the former board and some officials of the NSITF are presently being prosecuted by the EFCC.