Mathew Dadiya, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has inaugurated the governing board of the newly established North East Development Commission (NEDC) to fast track the rebuilding and development of the region. The President said that the establishment of the commission was in fulfillment of the pledge of his administration and  part of the strategy to rebuild the zone. The board chaired by retired Major General, Paul Tarfa was inaugurated on Wednesday at the Council Chamber of the State House, Abuja; before the commencement of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting. The President, who mandated the board to conduct a comprehensive survey of all the states in the northeast to know the magnitude of the damage caused by the insurgency, said that N10 billion is budgeted for the take off of the commission. He noted that the N10 billion has been captured in the 2019 budget, urging the board to judiciously use the fund. He said the establishment was also in appreciation of the massive electoral support of the zone in 2015 and 2019 general elections. Other members of the board are Mohammed Alkali (Managing Director) Officer of the NEDC, Musa Yashi, Executive Director Humanitarian Affairs; Muhammed Jawa, Executive Director Administration and Finance; Omar Mohammed, Executive Director Operations. Others are David Kente, member representing North East Zone; Asmau Mohammed, member representing North West Zone; Benjamin Adanyi, member representing North Central Zone, Olawale Oshun, member representing South West Zone; Dr. T. Ekechi member representing South East; and Obasuke McDonald,  member representing South South. The commission had last month presented a budget of N55 billion to the Senate out of which the grant of N10 billion is for humanitarian interventions. The Daily Times recalls that Buhari had in January sent the names of the nominees to the Senate for confirmation and were last month confirmed. The Senate had also confirmed Mohammed Alkali as the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the commission and nine others as members of the board of the commission. The Daily Times also recalls that the  Senate, in October 2016, passed the bill for the establishment of the North East Development Commission to coordinate the rebuilding of the terrorists-ravaged zone of the country. President Buhari assented to the bill on 26th October, 2017.