Joseph Inokotong, Abuja The National Association of Seadogs (NAS) also known as the Pyrates have joined the rest of the world to mark the 2019 World Hypertension Day with a call on Nigerians to prioritize knowing and monitoring their blood pressure regularly. With this year’s theme as ‘Know Your Numbers’ the Sahara deck of the Pyrates in Abuja, drew the attention of public to the rise in hypertensive cases in country. The group lamented that about 50% of hypertensive patients are unaware of their condition. High blood pressure remains a constant threat to the healthy lifestyle of Nigerians with high prevalence of cases recorded in youths within the age range of 25 and above. The NAS Medical Mission arm of the group advocated for health policies and intervention from government to regulate the high consumption of alcohols, tobacco and products with high sodium level. The NAS Medical Pyrate Dr Joseph Oteri informed that leading a healthy lifestyle and enacting critical government policies can help reduce the number of cases recorded in Nigeria. “If Government places heavy taxes on alcoholic and tobacco products, as well as implement a normal sodium level requirement in products consumed nationwide, it will discourage the indiscriminate consumption as we have nationwide. “A lot of Nigerians consume energy drinks and libido boosters, consume high sodium products and alcoholic drinks, these are secondary factors that can increase the blood pressure” “Although greater cases are recorded in urban areas, the primary healthcare sector should also be fully involved and empowered to cater and manage the condition” he stated. Dr Oteri cautioned on the use on sexual enhancers as major contributors to high blood pressure amongst men who constitute the larger group suffering from the cardiovascular problem. He advised that those diagnosed with high BP should dedicate to using their drugs judiciously. The Medical Practitioner attributed high sodium intake, low intake of potassium, fruits, and inactivity common among office worker as predisposing factors to the condition. Amongst other things he highlighted the need of checking blood pressure regularly, daily exercises, eating healthy and cautious intake of high sodium products as imperative to early detection and management of Hypertension. Stanley Nwodo, the President of NAS, Abuja said the Pyrates embarked on nationwide sensitization program because of the alarming rate of the problem and to raise the needed awareness about how to manage, monitor and prevent cases of cardiovascular problem caused by hypertension. “We carried out a medical outreach to check blood pressure of our members and non members, this is something we are proud to champion, as our quota to national welfare and development” he said World Hypertension Day is celebrated on May 17 every year to create awareness of the importance of monitoring blood pressure and knowing about its natural levels.