By Kingsley Chukwuka, Jos The Special Military Taskforce (STF) in Plateau state, code named ‘Operation Safe Haven’ has appealed to the people of Jos North Local Government Area to stop the consumption of hard drugs and other substances which has been recognized as a major trigger to violence. The taskforce said for the relative peace in the state to be sustained, the youth must show commitment by abstaining from all vices of criminality and gangsterism. Commander of the taskforce, Maj. Gen. Augustine Agundu, stated this at the weekend while appreciating the Hausa community in Jos North for comporting themselves well during the 2019 general elections. “We are here on a thank you visit to the Hausa community in Jos North; they assured us that they will not cause trouble during the elections and they kept to their words. “We know what has caused us trouble in the past and we must stop them. All forms of drug in-take and criminality must be stooped because this is not our nature. “I want the world to know that the people of Jos North and the entire Plateau has changed, therefore, I want to obtain commitment from everyone gathered here today that as from this day going forward peace has returned to the state. “Anyone who is trying to disrupt the peace in Plateau state, hand him over to security agencies,” the STF boss said. Responding, the Deputy Chairman, Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI), Garba Abdulkadir, said the special taskforce in deploying civil-military approach in resolving crisis has paid off especially in volatile areas. Abdulkadir assured the taskforce commander that elders in the Hausa community will ensure that youths remain law-abiding. Our correspondent reports that the thank you visit which took place at the Ali Kazaure Mosque, saw the gathering of Islamic clerics and other influential personalities from the Hausa community in attendance, while the taskforce gave out cartons of Indomie, food, clothing and wrappers to women as appreciation to the community for remaining law -abiding.