The Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in Borno state has deployed 500 armed personnel to various worship centres in Maiduguri to enhance security and safety. Commandant of the Corps, Ibrahim Abdullahi, who made this known on Sunday, said that the deployment was imperative as part of modalities toward protecting worshippers from unsuspected suicide bomb attacks during the Holy month of Ramadan. “The command has placed security measures to compliment the efforts of other securities agencies to guarantee protection of lives and property of all residents in the state during and after Ramadan fast,” he said. Abdullahi said that the team include, men of the anti-riot squad, bomb detection and disposal unit as well as intelligence and detective unit. He urged residents of Maiduguri to be security conscious following the recent unfortunate incidents of suicide bombing at the outskirts of Maiduguri. Also, he tasked the people to be observant of suspicious persons and strange objects in their worship centres, environment, market, business centres and shopping malls and to report such immediately to security agencies for prompt intervention. NAFDAC seals 20 stores for allegedly selling fake drugsThe National Agency for Food, Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) on Sunday said it sealed 20 shops and confiscated drugs worth over N2 million at the Monday market in Maiduguri, Borno state. NAFDAC Coordinator in the state, Nasiru Mato, who disclosed this shortly after the raid in an interview, said the traders were in possession of banned and expired pharmaceutical products. Mato said the raid was carried out after “intelligence gathering and undercover assessment of the medicine facilities,” adding that the raid was part of measures put in place to ensure traders and stakeholders ensure strict compliance with NAFDAC’s regulations for the overall safety and wellbeing of consumers. “We have seized all the substances and placed their facilities on hold. Such action like l said is aimed at ensuring sanity and strict compliance by all handlers of NAFDAC’s regulated products,” he said. The state coordinator listed some of the seized items to include, hierogram, Viagra, suredex, chest and lungs tablets, V9-130 lemotil, Imodium capsules, amlodipine, and Dr. Really extra among others. Others include, cold cap, Lisinopril, bongela cream and expired viccine eye -drops. Mato pledged to leave no stone unturned in the fight against unwholesome products to safeguard public health and therefore, called on consumers to patronize products that were certified by NAFDAC and avoid self-medication.