Moses Oyediran, Enugu An entrepreneur, Mr. Chukwuma Okenwa, has tasked the federal, state and local governments on the use of Public-Private-Partnership models in creating sustainable jobs for the youth. Okenwa, who is the chairman of CEO Media Limited, gave the advice during the 4th edition of the annual Employability and Entrepreneurship Summit (EES) held in Enugu at the weekend. The theme of the summit this year was: “Charged up for success: Learn, network and connect.’’ Okenwa, who is also the convener of the summit, said that the various levels of government in the nation need to partner private investors and entrepreneurs to see how to expand the job creation capacity of the economy. “World over, leaders consult and partner with major captains of industry and entrepreneurs to create not just immediate jobs, but jobs that can be sustainable from one decade to another. “There is a need for government to that take advantage of private captains of industry, who also have the financial resources to get involved in job creation; since the current number of unemployed youth is massive,’’ he said. However, he lauded the federal government for encouraging new innovative business ideas from the youth, adding that the government should extend its reach beyond financial-tech and business to areas like agriculture and natural resource mining. “Agriculture is one area that is yet to be seriously exploited for job creation in the country. We have a young population that should have the strength and knowledge, if enlightened and introduced to modern agriculture, to do great exploits and create more job spaces for others through agro-businesses,’’ he said. On the theme of the summit, Okenwa said that it was meant to fire-up young people by teaching them how to think as an entrepreneur as well as for them to imbibe positive attitudes of integrity and hard work. “The summit also exposes and connects them to successful entrepreneurs for mentorship as well as how to get easy funds from institutions to start-up small businesses as well as managing funds prudently,’’ he said.