By Kingsley Chukwuka, Jos The Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) has called for an end to the exploitation of journalists through casualization of their employment by some media organizations. Chairman of the NUJ, Plateau state Council, Paul Jatau, who made the observation on Wednesday in Jos, the state capital said that “this type of employment is promoting compromises in the journalism profession for financial gratifications.” He expressed worry that some media organizations engage their reporters on contract for a long period without converting them to permanent staff, thus depriving them of many entitlements. The NUJ chairman said labour laws do not allow the practice of casual staff for many years, yet many media organizations default in compliance to such laws, saying stringent action must be taken to curtail the practice. “Some media organizations are fond of giving reporters only identity cards for the job without any form of remuneration. In Plateau state, apart from government owned organizations, only three media organizations pay their reporters,” he alleged. He appealed to the Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, to press for the introduction of media salary scale to address the welfare of journalists, adding that “we want members of the National Assembly, especially those who have been in the profession to support our efforts to make it pass through the processes of legislation for implementation.” Also, Jatau called for a law to checkmate the proliferation of online publications in the society, noting that quack journalists and other non-professionals are hiding under such cover to disseminate fake news and promote hate speeches. “We must sanitize the profession to prevent it from being an all comers venture and enable us discharge our duties as the watchdog of the society diligently,” he advised. According to him, the NUJ in Plateau state had facilitated trainings for journalists with organizations such as Google and Search for Common Ground to horn their skills in using internet and adopting peace journalism in their reports. He said efforts were in top gear to build the NUJ House in the state, adding that the press center is being renovated to enable a conducive environment for journalists to discharge their duties and organize their events. Jatau advised journalists to be circumspect in their reports and work towards galvanizing the society through truthful and responsible reporting.