Nosa Akenzua, Asaba The Delta state Chairman, Nigerian Civil Service Union, Efeotor Benson, who returned N53 million erroneously paid into his account by the state government, on Sunday in Asaba, said he was initially advised to flee abroad by associates before he decided to return the money to the state government. Efeotor, who spoke to journalists on why it was necessary for him to be honest, saying that his wife prevailed on him to return the huge amount even when he was advised by those close to him to do otherwise. “Honesty pays. I believe that the N53 million was very tempting and I was advised to flee abroad with the money. I was crying very profusely when my wife advised that I should return the money and I went to the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Festus Ovie Agas and told him; he was very happy. “If you do very well, you will get rewarded and after the report, I forwarded the money to the account number I was given and barely 24 hours later the governor called me that I will be rewarded,” he narrated. Speaking further, Efeotor narrates that “when I got the alert of the N53 million and some fractions, I knew I was not expecting such a huge amount of money. Even when I retire I will not get such an amount of money and I called someone very close to me and he said I should flee abroad before they start looking for me. “But instead, I called the special adviser on labour matters to the governor who asked me to see SSG and I was attended to immediately. I want to thank Gov. Okowa and the journalists for the help they rendered; it was very tempting.” Comrade Efeotor, it will be recalled was on May Day rewarded by the Governor Ifeanyi Okowa with a brand new car for returning the N53 million that was erroneously paid into his account by the office of the state accountant general. Okowa had during his message to workers, commended Efeotor for his honesty and displaying the hallmark of a good Nigerian worker and urged Nigerians in public and private sectors to emulate Efeotor as honesty pays in all spheres of life. Meanwhile, the Obi Of Onicha Ugbo, Victor Chukwumalize 1, has appealed to the state government and security agencies to come the aid of the community following the alleged destruction of farmlands by Fulani herdsmen. Obi Chukwumalize 1, who spoke to journalists on his 20th coronation anniversary on Sunday, said “the practice whereby cattle destroy our farmlands, including the crops is very painful and I am appealing to the state government and security agencies to come to our aid.” While thanking the state government for recognizing Onicha Ugbo as a very peaceful community in spite of her large pupolation, Obi Chukwumalize 1 said that “I am particularly happy that the people of Onicha Ugbo are very peaceful and I will express my deepest appreciation to all those the Almighty God has been using to see that things go well in our community, but the only problem is the Fulani herdsmen destroying our farmlands.”