Nosa Akenzua, Asaba The Delta state Traditional Rulers’ Council on Sunday in Asaba, appealed to the federal government to end the state of insecurity in the country, especially in the state and have endorsed community policing as a solution to tackling the activities of criminals. Expressing fears that the country may be sliding into anarchy because of the rising wave of crime and criminality, said they were concerned about the unabating insecurity situation across the state and the nation, and urged the federal government through the security agencies to swing into action by adopting decisive strategies to curtain the activities of criminals. Addressing journalists after their monthly meeting, the Chairman of the Delta state Traditional Rulers Council, Obi Emmanuel Efeizomor 11, said that “we condemn the attacks and killings of innocent Nigerians in Kastina, Zamfara, Kaduna, Benue and other flash points across the country. “We are worried by the increasing insecurity and lack of value for human life. We are worried that kidnapping, armed robbery, cattle rustling, herdsmen attacks on farmers and trading on human parts have remained unabated, and we feel government should act fast and stem the tide.” The monarchs however, charged thei nspector general of police to come up with strategies for effective community policing, adding that it is the only way out of the menace and allow Nigerians heave a sigh of relief as well as sleeping with their two eyes open. Accordingly, the monarchs added further that “we wish to urge Nigerians not to regard security as the sole responsibility of security agencies and the military alone, rather all Nigerians should see security as the collective responsibility of all.” Also, they alerted unsuspecting members of the public to the activities of criminal syndicates who often pose as security personnel along the highway and pretend to be willing to assist motorists having vehicle problems, only to turn round to dispossess them of their belongings and other valuables. The council therefore, called for synergy between traditional rulers in the state and president general of their various communities, saying that there is no need for acrimony between them. It appealed to governments at all levels to continue to build on existing development structures for steady development and growth of the society, adding that the development blueprint of past governments should not be jettisoned, but improved upon.