By Ahmad Sorondinki, Kano Kano State Goverment has made payment of N500m as Counterpart Funding  to the Nigerian Erosion and Watershed Management Project ( NEWMAP) in an effort  to address the menace of erosion across the state. Governor Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje represented by his Deputy Nasiru Gawuna, disclosed this at the official Commissioning and handing over ceremony of Gandu -Tukun tawa – Zoo road Erosion and Flood Control Project,  executed by the Federal Government at Municipal/ Kumbotso Local Government Areas. Gawuna,  maintained that the move  was part of the collective engagement between the Federal Government and World Bank to check issues connected with environmental degredation in the Country. He said,  in complementing the efforts of the Federal Government to address erosion and floods, Kano state government  had also constructed 65no of drainages across the 44 local government areas of the State and ensured sustenance of annual clearance of major and minor drainages to avert threat of  flood in the State. ”  to this end, Kano State Government employed over 1000 Sanitation Vanguards for effective implementation of Public health laws in the State plus the 100 Forest Guards being employed by the State to manage forest formation “ On the erosion Control Project which was commissioned by the Minister of State for labour and employment Professor Stephen Oceni, Gawuna,  said ” I am aware that the Project which is part of the Federal Government intervention being funded and executed by the Ecological Fund Office aimed at addressing  challenges targeted towards improving the socio- econimic well being of the community “ ” our administration had purchased 86o of refuse collection tippers at the cost of N1.4b for sustained refuse evacuation under Refuse Management and Sanitation Board (REMASAB) as well as 2no Bull Dozers at the sum of N47, 475, 000.00 ” He said. He further commended the Buhari’s administration for its vigorous pursuit towards the establishment of secondary effluent treatment at Challawa, Sharada and Bompai Industrial Estates and urged the people of the affected community to cherish this loudable project and safeguard it against indiscriminate dumping of refuse. Earlier, the Minister of State for labour and employment Professor Stephen Oceni said the 2.5 Km project was one of the ecological intervention projects approved by Mr. President to check the erosion menace and flooding  as well as to improve the environmental condition of the areas after years of untold hardship and neglect. ” the cardinal objective of this administration is also hinged on addressing the infrastructural deficit which Ecological Fund Office is equally complementing and pursuing with all vigour especially in tackling ever growing ecological   and environmental Challenges across the Country ” he stated. According to the Minister, the situation before the intervention  was unpleasant to say the least interms of destruction of lives and property aside of recurring epidemic and flood disaster on yearly basis due to the volume of the runoff and lack of capacity of the drainages to accomodate pressure resulting from structural inadequencies.