Chukwuemeke Iwelunmo The Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN) has threatened to shut the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) if the organogram of the Authority is not reviewed and expanded. Speaking at the ATSSSAN secretariat in Lagos during the Workers Day rally, the president of ATSSSAN, Comrade Ilitrus Ahmadu said over 47 Assistant General Manager (AGM) positions in NCAA have been extinguished and some directorates and departments have been merged as a result of obsolete organogram. He said this development was not acceptable to the union, adding that if this was not addressed, ATSSSAN will have no other option than to shut NCAA down. He said ATSSSAN has made their position known in the matter to the minister of state for Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika and other relevant authorities. Ahmadu said this obsolete organogram was affecting workers promotion as those who were due for promotion were not promoted. According to him, it has become necessary to expand the organogram to accommodate workers who were due for promotion to be promoted. He said ATSSSAN still reject in totality the issue of airport concession because of its negative impact on the workers, adding that the union will not support any policy that will affect the interest of the workers. ATSSSAN president maintained that the concession of the country’s airports will not be in the best interest of the workers as it will lead to job losses, loss in revenue and other negative impacts. Ahmadu stated further that ATSSSAN would soon get to organisations in the aviation industry who are opposed to their workers joining unions of their choice or have anti-labour policies. He explained that before now, the staff of the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT) were not receiving their severance packages. He maintained that through it was negotiated, it has gotten ministerial approval for that as NCAT staff are now receiving their severance packages. He said the union was also negotiating severance package for the staff of Bi-Courtney Aviation Services which it was hoping to get result soon. ATSSAN President noted that the issue of Caverton Helicopters and the union over its anti-labour practices against worker was already in court as the company instituted a suit against them and the National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE).