By Mathew Dadiya, Abuja Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Abok-Ete Ibas has said that there is a remarkable drop in the number of kidnappings in the country. According to the naval chief, what normally would attract attention is when a key person in government is kidnapped. Ibas said this on Thursday while speaking to State House correspondents after a security meeting between President Muhammadu Buhari and the service chiefs at the Aso Villa, Abuja. He said that the security agencies briefed the President on what has been happening with particular emphasis on the proliferation of small arms and what the various agencies were doing to curtail the consequences of this proliferation. The naval chief said that the meeting was “just basically to appraise Mr. President of the security situation generally after his short vacation abroad.” Ibas stated that President Buhari has also given directives that the security agencies should do much more to ensure that Nigerians go to bed and wake up feeling healthy and confident that their security is guaranteed. “You will recall during the last meeting, the inspector-general of police was directed to ensure and consequently, various operations were set up; Puff Adder was one of the strategies. “With the set-up of that operation, there have been a remarkable drop in the number of kidnappings. On the whole, the number of kidnappings has dropped and generally, I think the security situation is improving,” Ibas said. Speaking on the kidnapped district head of Daura, he said that serious efforts were being made to secure his release, adding that key suspects have been arrested “and it is hoped that in a short while, those behind the heinous crime will be brought to book.” The security chiefs who attended the meeting include, Ministers of Defence, Mansur Dan Ali; Interior, Abdulrahman Dambazzau; Chief of Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Gabriel Olanisakin; National Security Adviser, Mohammed Babagana Monguno; Chief of Army Staff, Gen. Yufus Buratai; Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Ibok-Ete Ibas; Inspector General of Poilce, Mohammed Adamu; National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ahmed Abubakar; and the Director General of DSS, Yusuf Bichi.