By Doosuur Iwambe, Abuja *Says, Churchill is a Yahoo boy  Controversy trailing the failed marriage between controversial Nollywood actress Tonto Dikeh and her estranged husband Olakunle Churchill Oladunni may not die down anytime soon. This is just as the actress has released a tell-all video titled “Evidence” in which she addressed her failed marriage to Churchill as well as the rumours and claims that have been flying around, some of them made by her ex-husband, Churchill. Known for dragging her ex-husband, the actress in a new explosive interview she granted said that she is doing the video for her son, so he can grow up to see the fight she put up for him. ‘’First of all, I’m a mother. Not just a mother, but a mother who is dangerously I love with her son and I want my son to grow up and watch or listen to my own side of the story that I told him through my channel because, really, this is for my son, not really for the public’’, she said in the new video. The mother of one in the interview released some “evidence” to prove that her claims about her ex-husband Churchill and his mother are true. Some of the accusations she made in the video were that Churcill was a scammer and his mother was in on it. She claims she was the “biggest scam” Churchill ever pulled and she fell for it. “I feel terrible, I feel used. I am the biggest scam that Churchill Olakunle Oladunni has ever played in his life.” She added in the tell-all video: “This is his mother, in on the same scam. The first time I met them, his mother told me she’s Obasanjo’s wife. It’s a scam. He told me he’s Obasanjo’s son. He’s a scam. “He (Churchill) was a librarian for Obasanjo. “His father, God bless is soul, even if I did not know him, I’m not sure I’d have hated him totally. “This is his father. (She proceeds to show a photo of a man who Churchill bears a striking resemblance to). “This is who his father is. His father was Obasanjo’s gardener that graduated into being a spiritual leader. This is his father. “This man has never for one day,post a picture of his father,  he always posts Obasanjo on Obasanjo’s birthday with the caption,  ‘Happy birthday daddy.’ Even the brother. If you go to his page you’ll see him and Obsanajo, ‘Daddy I came to see daddy’. Not for one day have they ever posted this man’s picture (their real father). Because they want to keep scamming people that they’re Obasanjo’s son.” She also claimed that Churchill constantly beat her up then connived to ensure that the CCTV footage proving this never gets released. She said: “Why was the CCTV camera not released? Because he can’t release it because those tapes show how much he constantly beat me up.” The mother-of-one broke down in tears as she showed a document to her viewers and accused her son’s father of embarrassing their son. She accused him of being a “Yahoo boy” and said she once caught him red handed. ‘’I want my son to grow up, I’m not the kind of mother tht’s going to hide things from her son. No. My son will know everything and the whole truth. ‘’So, yes my son’s father is a fraud. He is a yahoo yahoo boy. How I know, because I caught him in the middle of a red candle, with laptop in his lap and a red clothe tied around his waist. Tonto Dikeh went on to insist she was the one who paid for her traditional marriage to Churchill and bought all the things he claimed he bought for her. She also spoke about her reason for doing this.