By Abdrew Orolua, Abuja The Federal High Court, Abuja on Friday struck out the suit seeking to sack Senate President Bukola Saraki, Speaker, House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara and 52 other lawmakers over their defection from the political party that sponsored them to the National Assembly to another political party. An advocacy group, Legal Defence and Assistance Project (LEDAP) had filed the suit seeking the sack of the National Assembly members over their election last year. LEDAP in the suit filed on September 14, 2018, also prayed the court for an interpretation of Section 68(1)(g) of the 1999 Constitution. Justice Okon Abang while ruling on the preliminary objection raised by the lawmakers, ruled that the plaintiff has no locus standi (legal right) to file the action seeking the sack of the lawmakers. The judge said the plaintiff is not a political party and did not sponsor the defendants to contest election to the National Assembly and that it has no locus standi to file the legal action because he is not the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) that is empowered to regulate and monitor political parties, neither is he a member of the senatorial district or constituencies that voted the defendants to the National Assembly. According to the Judge, LEDAP did not put anything before the court to show that members of the defendants’ constituencies were aware of the suit and failed to also show that he suffered any injury over and above other members of the public. “Even though the plaintiff has a good case aimed at promoting the rule of law and constitutionalism, I do not think the plaintiff has the locus standi to institute the action,” he held. Justice Abang said the plaintiff did not secure fiat from the attorney -general of the federation to file the action and has not shown how the defection of the lawmakers affected his fundamental rights. The judge further faulted the suit of the plaintiff on the ground that he failed to join the political parties that sponsored the defendants in the suit, adding that “the case of the plaintiff is incompetent, lacking in merit and is hereby, accordingly struck out.” Earlier, he had declined the defendants request to refer the matter to the Court of Appeal for the interpretation of Section 68(1)(g) of the 1999 Constitution, saying that the Supreme Court has provided enough materials that will assist the court in arriving at a decision in the matter. The judge said the third defendant (Senator Godswill Akpabio) was joined in the suit in error because he never defected from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressive Congress (APC). He said Sen. Akpabio only moved from the PDP to the APC after he was expelled from the PDP, noting that Sen. Akpabio has the constitutional right to join any political party of his choice to represent the people that voted him to the National Assembly. The judge said the matter regarding Akpabio is sub-judice as he has an order of a high court of the Federal Capital Territory restraining the Senate President from declaring his seat at the National Assembly vacant. Earlier, while reviewing the submissions of lawyers in the matter, Justice Abang agreed with the plaintiff’s lawyer that the defectors violated the Constitution and ought to have vacated their seats, since there was no division of a kind that can warrant their defection.