Patrick Okohue, Lagos The victory of Prince Dapo Abiodun in the May 9, 2019 governorship election in Ogun State to emerge the governor-elect of the state has been described by many as divine intervention and a product of destiny. This is because many had written off the Iperu Remo born politician in the race, more because the governor of the state, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, had sworn that Abiodun, who coincidentally had been his friend of many years standing, will not emerge governor of the state, but rather his preferred candidate, Adekunle Akinlade of the Allied People’s Movement (APM). Governor Amosun despite remaining in the All Progressives Congress (APC) and even contesting and winning a senatorial seat on the platform of the APC, insisted that Abiodun, the candidate of the APC, will never be allowed to emerge as his successor. That Abiodun, a businessman and politician, is today the Governor-elect of Ogun State, speaks volume and throws much challenge on the shoulders of the incoming governor and it will be important that he knows that his coming has a reason and purpose for the people of the state. That he was born on May 29, 1960 and he will be sworn-in as the next governor of Ogun State on May 29, is not a mere co-incidence, but an indication that there is a divine purpose to his emergence. Dapo Abiodun is the board Chairman of the Corporate Affairs Commission and the Managing Director of Heyden Petroleum and the founder of First Power Limited. An indigene of Iperu Remo in Ogun State, Abiodun belongs to a royal family. He was born into the family of Dr. Emmanuel and Mrs. Victoria Abiodun from Iperu Remo in Ogun East senatorial district. Record has it that he studied civil engineering at the Obafemi Awolowo University, and subsequently, Accounting at Kennesaw State University, Atlanta Georgia, United States of America (USA). He also holds a Honours Doctorate Degree in Finance from Ekiti State University, Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State and another in Business Administration from Adeleke University, Ede, Osun State. Dapo Abiodun’s political experience which include being a founding member of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogun State, where he contested the Ogun East senatorial seat in the 2015 general election and now in the All Progressives Congress (APC), where he has won the governorship election among many other experiences, many believe stands him out as a politician and technocrat well grounded to know the direction to turn in turning the lives of the people around positively. Many political watchers say one of the immediate tasks before Abiodun is to build bridges across the various political divides in the state as the people of Ogun State have endured in the last almost eight years, with an administration that has concentrated more on the succession crisis than governance. It is not surprising that all hope rests on the in – coming governor as a possible messiah in the days ahead to end their years of perceived deprivation, divisive and sectional governance. Also, a ground swell of goodwill cutting across the three senatorial districts and the last minutes alliances and fence mending that resulted in the victory of Abiodun on March 9, despite Amosun’s undisguised opposition to his candidature amid repeated vaunting that Akinlade of the APM would succeed him, attested to the resolve of the people to end the alleged final transmutation to stop an individual from emerging as an Emperor in the state and Abiodun must resist every temptation to toe this line. Already, the governor-elect has constituted a 23 – member Economic Transition Committee (ETC) to help him articulate his manifesto for the state, ensure robust engagement with stakeholders and chart a roadmap to guide the implementation. The committee which is chaired by Tunde Lemo, a former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, has Dapo Okubadejo, as its Secretary. Perhaps as a sign of what is to come, former Deputy Governor, Salimot Badru, the governorship candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) in the last gubernatorial poll, Prince Gboyega Nasir Isiaka, the deputy governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Reuben Abati and Social Democratic Party (SDP) gubernatorial candidate, Prince Rotimi Paseda, are among members of the Economic Transition Committee (ETC). The membership composition which reflects his avowed commitment to run an all-inclusive government and in recognition of the state’s abundance human resources in all fields of endeavour and the implementation of whatever their recommendations will be, it is advised should indeed signpost the positive expectations of the people.