Gbenga Sodeinde, Ado Ekiti The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the July 14, 2018 governorship election, Professor Kolapo Olusola, on Tuesday, served Governor Kayode Fayemi the Notice of Appeal, Records of Appeal and the Appellate brief of argument through substituted means at the state Secretariat of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The service followed the Interim Order of service granted the appellant by the Supreme Court on Monday the 6th of May, a copy of which was made available to reporters in Ado Ekiti. The order granted by Justice Olabode Rhodes – Vivour was that the processes could be served on any APC State officials or pasted on the wall of the APC Secretariat situated at 156, Ajilosun Street, Ado Ekiti. It would be recalled that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared the candidate of the APC, Fayemi, as the winner of the governorship election. 1 The Election Petition Tribunal in its judgment on the 28, January 2019 ruled in favour of the APC candidate, Dr. Fayemi by dismissing the petition of PDP candidate as lacking in merit. Dissatisfied with the ruling of the tribunal, the PDP candidate filled an appeal at the Court of Appeal and the appellate court on 28 March 2019 delivered judgment against the Appellants PDP and its candidate therein affirmed the decision of the trial Court. According to the Legal Adviser to the PDP, Mr. Sunday Olowofela, who spoke to reporters after the substituted service was served on APC and its candidate, he said “upon filling of Notice of Appeal, compilation of records and brief of arguments, other respondents without much ado have received copies of the enumerated process. “While the 3rd respondent allegedly traversed the country in a ploy to evade service after his Counsel declined receiving the processes claiming that he was not briefed to so receive the court process. “With this development, the appellants filled for substituted service and same was granted on Monday 6th of May 2019,” he said.