For fast rising actress, Jennifer Obodo, the urge to make to the big screen prompted her acting zeal and ever since the super talented actress has featured in countless movies; a graduate of Mass Communication & Media Technology  from the Leadcity University, Ibadan is sure of the most sought after at the event. Even though she has had her own fair share of challenges in the industry; Jennifer looks forward to producing her own movies soon.  Cornered recently on a movie set, Jennifer who is also a model reveal to MUTIAT ALL, how the journey started, plans in the industry, why the industry needs to more creative amongst others. How did the journey all begin? First I started modelling in 2010 after my O’level but I have always had the passion for acting. I didn’t know where to start from and how to go about it. So, I had friends who always encouraged me and asked me to go for the both that I have got all it takes to be a TV star. Then I felt I had the courage to go for it. I started getting audition updates from people and on Facebook, my family then was against it especially my elder brother who was like a bone in my neck (laughs). I told him that the only thing I needed was his support or else I will go behind and do my thing. My mum later gave in and supported me. However, in 2011 I was at home cooking when my friend came to me and told me that they were filming close to my house that a guy who is an actor on that set came around to buy something and then they started talking and she told him she had a friend who really wanted to act but doesn’t know how to start. So the guy requested to see me, she called me to meet the guy. I quickly rounded up with what I was doing and went to see him. On getting there, he saw me, we talked and I told him I really wanted to act so he took me to that set and was able to get something for me to do which was just three (3) scenes. The movie is titled BlackBerry prostitutes. That was my first movie ever but unfortunately he is late now (May his soul rest in peace…Amen) That was actually a starting point for me. How was your first time on set? There was this joy in me that day so I started attending acting auditions here and there. It wasn’t easy at all. The stress was too much for me and I almost gave up on it. I met so many who promised and failed. I met the fake and real ones then I decided to go back to school and come back when I am done and free to do all I wanted. But I never stopped modeling. I was doing it while I was in school and using that to assist myself. Then in 2015 I started coming back into the industry because I have come to understand everything about the industry, I graduated in 2015, served in Akwa Ibom state in 2016 then I started calling most of the producers and directors that I knew that I am ready to start my acting career full time.  So, from 2017 till date, it has been a great journey for me I must say. Who are those you looked up to before you joined the industry? The likes of Genevieve Nnaji, Nse Etim, and Mercy Johnson, Omotola Jalade What were the challenges you faced at the early beginning? The challenges I faced wasn’t as bad as I expected.  Just that some fake people who are not up to who they tell you they are will come of disguise of wanting to have a relationship with you but at the end they just want to have a taste of you and go. I met so many people like that and it was because of that I almost wanted to give up on acting. But it is something I really have passion for, so I decided to stay away for a while and get to understand the industry and make more of the real contacts before coming back full time which was what I did. Have you been on same set with any of them? No. I haven’t but I know I will someday. I was supposed to be on the same set with Mercy Johnson but it clashed with another so it didn’t work. How does your man react seeing you play romantic roles, in movies? The regular punch line (laughs). He would always say ‘after you will say is movie you are acting’. Does that make you select roles? I select base on the story and role given to me. So what kind of role can you not play? Hmmmm. I can’t act nude. Even if the money in millions of dollars? I’m not interested please. What makes you unique? I love being different and surprising and not fitting stereotypes. I’m rather pleased to be me. I have a great self esteem and confidence. It makes me willing to seek out and accept challenges I may not appear to be able to deliver on initially. I’m open minded and can’t stand injustice. I dream big and work hard. I’m not afraid of failure. In fact I think it is an essential part of the experimental process that takes you to success. This is why I am unique. Which is the most challenging? None of the above. I’m yet to see that movie that would  really challenge me. Aside acting what else do you do? I’m planning on owning my own fashion store, and I hope to do that soon also want start a pet project too. What’s the best part of your body you admire? My height, smile, dimples and legs. How do you relate with your male fans? I try as much as possible to be nice. I just smile, wave and snap photos with them of need be. Have you encountered sexual harassment in Nollywood? No I haven’t. It has been the grace of God protecting me. Are you in a serious relationship at the moment? I don’t want to talk much about my relationship, please. I want to keep it private. There are lots of lesbianism accusations on Nollywood actress, how true is that? That’s their cup of tea. I know about myself so I can’t say. But for me I am so straight and will forever be straight. Have you had any funny encounter? Yes but online and I blocked the person immediately. How did that make you feel? Irritated. Honestly, it made me ask my yourself questions; like ‘do I really look like one’? I can never be a lesbian. Do you have plans to produce your own movies soon? Yes I do. I am working on that already. If you have the opportunity to change certain things in Nollywood, what would it be? We have to be more creative in the way we tell our stories. The fact that we want to tell the same story but what angle are you telling it from matters. It should be more about the twist and turns. Nollywood should also to learn to grow young actors. We should learn how to transcend to the next level and not using older actors to play a role of a teenager. We have so many wonderful actors out there, so there should be a mix. Truth be told, most of us outgrow some certain roles, so I think we should be able to use who fits into a particular role not minding if the person is a popular face or not. I get to see so many errors also in editing where spirits are scared of crossing the road or you seeing the shadows of spirits which doesn’t make any sense at all. Another thing is that actors are not appreciated as much as artists in the society which is wrong. I hope to change most of this things and more.