By Tunde Opalana, Abuja To address the increase in the number of passengers plying the Abuja- Kaduna rail line, the federal government is expecting 12 new coaches to arrive the country in the next eight weeks. The expected coaches are part of the 64 ordered from China by the federal government as part of short term measures to alleviate the sufferings of motorists who have abandoned the Abuja – Kaduna highway following the wave kidnapping, armed robbery, insurgency and banditry along the ever busy highway. Chairman, Senate Committee on Land Transport, Sen. Gbenga Ashafa (Lagos East) made the disclosure on Wednesday during plenary. Sen. Ashafa revealed that the federal government has paid for 64 coaches, but lamented that the Chinese company building the coaches is only ready with 12 coaches that would be delivered in the next eight weeks. He however, attributed lack of funds as the problem facing the rail system in the country, just as the Senate urged the federal government to deploy more coaches to the Abuja-Kaduna rail line to ameliorate the plight of passengers. Also, the Senate urged the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) to increase the frequency of trips on the Abuja- Kaduna rail route while it referred the recommendation for the reduction of train fare to the corporation to study the transport fare system before reducing or increasing the rail fare. But, in apparent fear that nothing may likely be done at the moment to address the security challenges in the country, some senators expressed concern that something concrete should be done urgently to make the rail system work effectively, traveling on some of the nation’s roads is becoming dangerous. These Senate resolutions were sequel to the adoption of a motion titled sponsored by Sen. Ali Ndume (Borno South). Leading debate on the motion, Sen. Ndume noted that most passengers en route Abuja-Kaduna have turned to the railway as a safer means of transport, adding that the surge in the patronage of the rail services may be attributed to its safety, comfort, convenience and perhaps, affordability which have drawn many commuters following the high risk on the Abuja-Kaduna Expressway that is threatened by kidnappers, armed robbers and other kinds of criminals. Sen. Ndume noted the huge numbers of travellers jostling for tickets at the rail station, adding that shortage in the number of available coaches explain the long queues recorded at the stations. Narrating his experience, the Borno senator said that he stood on a two -hour second class coach from Abuja – Kaduna before a good spirited passenger offered him a seat, asserting that the number of passengers standing on each train trip outnumber those sitting. Contributing to the debate, Sen. Shehu Sani stated that the Abuja-Kaduna rail line has become the oxygen and lifeline of the people, adding that the Abuja-Kaduna Road has become one of the most dangerous roads in the country. Sen. James Manager however, disagreed with this assertion, insisting that the Abuja-Kaduna Road is the most dangerous in the country, adding that only those who want to commit suicide use the road at the moment. Both Senators Manager and Yahaya Abdullahi argued that it will be unfeasible for the Senate to unilaterally reduce rail fares without recourse to the NRC. The Senate therefore, tasked security agencies to intensify security on the Abuja -Kaduna Expressway as permanent solution to the worsening security situation.