*Reveals why he committed the crimeBy Adewale Momoh, AkureDeji Adenuga, who is suspected to have set nine members of his erstwhile girlfriend, Titi Sarumi ablaze in their sleep has confessed to committing the crime. With eight of the family members confirmed dead, Adenuga, a palm wine tapper who was popularly known as “Davar” was paraded at the headquarters of the Ondo state Police Command on Tuesday. It was gathered that Adenuga had in 2013 escaped from the Olokuta Medium Prison, Akure, when he was standing trial for killing his first wife.On April 23, Igbodigho community in Okitipupa Local Government Area of Ondo state was thrown into mourning following the action of Adenuga after he set a family of nine ablaze.Five members of the family were reported dead while three others were confirmed dead two days while undergoing treatment at the hospital.Confessing to the crime, Adenuga said that he was jilted by his erstwhile girlfriend, Titi. This made him to set the family house ablaze in the middle of the night. According to him, Titi’s elder sister, Jumoke compounded the no love lost relationship between him and his estranged girlfriend, alleging that she was using Titi to defraud him.“My girlfriend (Titi) went to abort the four -months -old pregnancy she had for me after I advised her not to. She also ran away with my N55, 000. I’ve been the one taking care of Titi and her aunt’s family. “Titi’s aunt (Jumoke) always made sure Titi and I had quarrel which she used in extorting money from me. She will advise her sister to leave and when I go pleading, she will use the avenue to collect money and food items from me. She did it again this time and threatened that I cannot do anything as an ex-convict. It was her threat that made me to carry out my action. I had wanted to kill only Titi and her sister, Jumoke. I never knew other members of the family were in the room,” he said. According to police, Adenuga was nabbed at Ijebu-Ode, Ogun state on Monday, where he went to hide after committing the heinous crime.Meanwhile, two kidnappers Abdulmumini Muhammadu 40, and Saidu Muhammadu 30, were have also been nabbed by the police in the satte. It was gathered that the kidnappers, who had last year kidnapped one of their victims, Yemi Ilesanmi, before he was rescued by the police after demanding N30 million ransom from him.