Patrick Okohue Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt Hon Mudashiru Obasa and the member reprewsenting Ifako Ijaiye Constituency 1 in the state House of Assembly, Hon Dayo Saka Fafunmi have condoled with the state deputy governor-elect, Dr Kadri Obafemi Hamzat and members of his family over the death of his father, Oba Mufutau Olatunji Hamzat, who was once a frontline political leader in the state. Describing the late Oba Hamzat, as a man who lived a life committed to the development of democracy and justice in the country, Rt. Hon. Obasa said the death of Hamzat, came at a time the state and the country at large is still benefiting immensely from his wealth of experience, wisdom and knowledge. Oba Mufutau Olatunji Hamzat who was the Olu of Afowowa Sogade, Ewekoro Local Government Area of Ogun State, died on Sunday. Rt. Hon. Obasa in a condolence message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Musbau Rasak said, “Indeed, his death came at a time the state and the country at large are still benefiting from his wealth of experience, wisdom and knowledge. But who are we to query Almighty Allah? He alone has decided that this is the best time for Papa to leave us. “He was one of the founding fathers of Nigerian democracy, particularly the present democratic dispensation. He was in the forefront of the struggle for the enthronement of democracy during the military era. He lived a life totally dedicated to the development of democracy and democratic values in the country and he was committed to every cause of justice and the Rule of Law,” Rt. Hon Obasa, also Chairman of the Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures of Nigeria, said. He stated further that, “we take consolation in the fact that he not only lived a fulfilled life, but also left behind offsprings who are dedicated to continuing the struggle for democracy to grow in Nigeria from where he left it”. Adding, “on behalf of my colleagues at the Lagos State House of Assembly, I console with the Lagos State Government, our party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Hamzat family over this great loss. May Allah grant him al-Janat fridaous”. Also in a condolence message, Hon Dayo Saka Fafunmi, commiserated with Dr Obafemi Hamzat, the incoming Deputy Governor of Lagos State and other family members on the demise of the monarch and also the people of Ifako Ijaiye and “indeed all Lagosians for this great loss.” According to him, “we come to this world with nothing and we go back with nothing, but what we do for others remain indelible. The good people of Ifako Ijaiye, entire Lagosians and indeed all Nigerians have lost a rare gem, a father figure, a political strategist, and leader of leaders in the person of HRM Oba Olatunji Muftau Hamzat. This loss no doubt is an irreparable loss, and one which will be hard to fill. “Be that as it may, we take solace in the fact that Baba lived a meaningful and fulfilled life while on earth, for Baba Hamzat as fondly called is one of the few men who came, saw and conquered as far the world of humanity is concerned,” Fafunmi added.