By Doosuur Iwambe, Abuja The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibadan zonal office has secured the conviction of four internet fraudsters. Three of the convicts, Alimi Azeez Oluwadamilare, Paul Opeyemi Omotunde and Igberase Hope Odianosen were tried at the Federal High Court, Abeokuta while the other suspect, Okuneye Opeyemi James, got the reward for his criminal act at the Ibadan division of the court. According to a statement by the EFCC acting Head, Media and Publicity, Tony Orilade, Alimi, a member of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and Omotunde, a 2019 graduate from the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, were convicted and sentenced to four months in prison by Justice Ibrahim Watilat of Federal High Court 1, Abeokuta. Also in Abeokuta, Justice Mohammed Abubarkar of court 2 jailed Igberase for four months. The trio were re-arraigned on a one-count amended charge of criminal impersonation, contrary to Section 22 (2)(b)(iv) of the Cyber -Crime Prohibition Prevention Act, 2015 and punishable under the same Act. The fresh arraignments were sequel to the plea bargain arrangements between them and the EFCC which reduced the number of charges to one. Besides sending them to jail, the presiding judges also ordered that they refund sums of money in foreign currencies to their respective victims as restitution while all items recovered from them during their interrogation are equally to be forfeited to the federal government. In the same vein, Justice Patricia Ajoku of the Federal High Court, Ibadan, sentenced Okunoye Opeyemi James (a.k.a. James Kosta) to four months in prison. The 24-year-old was facing a one-count amended charge bordering on fraudulent impersonation contrary to Section 22 (2)(b)(iv) of the Cyber -Crimes (Prohibition, Prevention Etc) Act, 2015. He was arrested for internet-related offences on April 11 by the police who later handed him over to the Ibadan zonal office of the EFCC for further investigation. Investigations by the commission revealed that the convict’s modus operandi was to illegally hack into people’s accounts to gain unrestricted access to vital and sensitive information, and covert same to fraudulent use.