Nosa Akenzua, Asaba Delta state government has called on individuals, organizations, the private sector and well-meaning Deltans to partner with it in funding education in the state. Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Festus Ovie Agas made the call in Asaba during the second Delta state award for excellence for pupils and students held at the Conference Hall of Felix Ibru Secretariat, along Okpanam Road, Asaba. Agas stated that the government alone cannot carry the burden of adequately funding education and therefore, called on the private sector to join hands with the state government in funding education. The secretary to the state government who expressed appreciation to Eroton Oil Exploration and Production Company for partnering with the state government in the area of education and for sponsoring the award for excellence programme, stated that the state government places high premium on education, adding that Nigeria was running a knowledge based economy. He said that the Okowa administration has education as one of its cardinal programmes, as such the education sector has received remarkable facelift with the repositioning of technical and vocational education, construction and renovation of school infrastructure, equipping of public schools, revamping of school sports and the adoption of international best practices. He congratulated the awardees and urged them to continue to excel in their studies. Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education, Chiedu Ebie said one critical sphere where a sustainable partnership was desired was that of rewarding learners who excel academically. “The award of excellence is aimed at celebrating highly motivated students by creating a sense of pride as well as encouraging and facilitating students’ interest in acquiring skills and knowledge,” Ebie stated. He revealed that the state government is resolute in its determination and commitment to ensure that the award of academic excellence was sustained, saying that the benefits have already manifested in learners’ quest for excellence in various academic endeavours. While congratulating the awardees, Ebie also expressed appreciation to Eroton Oil Exploration and Production Company Limited for its commitment and partnership in recognizing and celebrating excellence and the future leaders. Highpoint of the ceremony was the presentation of cash prizes and laptops to the various winners in each category.