Chioma Joseph, Lagos A suspected robber has been feared killed during a gun battle between a team of police from the Okokomaiko Police Division and a gang of traffic robbers. The deceased robber, who is a member of the gang, had been unleashing terror on motorists and commuters around Casidy bustop and Okokomaiko. It was gathered that the police detachment who were on survellance patrol, intercepted the gang at Cassidy bustop, at about 10:20pm, last Friday. Another member of the gang, Adigun Ganiyu, 26, was also arrested by the police. Confirming the incident, the  spokesperson for the Lagos State Police Command, DSP, Elkana Bala said, “ The hoodlums engaged the police in a gun battle but eventually succumbed to the superior power of the Police. One of the hoodlums was fatally injured, while Ganiyu was arrested. Other gang members escaped.” On what was recovered from the suspect Bala said, “ one double barrel gun with one live cartridge and two expanded cartridges were recovered. One motorcycle used by the hoodlums for the robbery operation was also recovered.” He further stated that the arrested suspect have confessed that his gang is responsible for series of traffic robbery along Okokomaiko. “He is helping investigators with useful information about his fleeing colleagues, while Investigation is ongoing,” Bala stated. In a related development, Policemen attached to the Ilemba-Hausa Police Division have arrested a suspected traffic robber, justice igboanusi. According to the Lagos PPRO, the police had intercepted a gang of traffic robbers who were shooting sporadically, last Saturday at Church bustop, Ilemba at about 10:30pm. The PPRO said, “Surveillance patrol team attached to Ilemba Hausa Police Station, intercepted a gang of traffic robbery suspects operating on motorcycle along Church bus stop Ilemba. They were shooting sporadically. The 29-year-old Igboanusi of NO. 11 jinadu street, Ajangbadi was arrested. “One short double barrels gun with one live cartridge was recovered from him while other gang members escaped.” He said Investigation is ongoing as suspect will be charged to Court.