…as Zenith Bank boss, others bag fellowship award Temitope Adebayo The President, Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN), Dr Uche Olowu has called on the furtherance commitment in ethics and professionalism in the banking industry, stressing that it is a steward of resources. Speaking at the institute first-ever extraordinary fellowship investiture themed, “Ethical Dilemma in Financial Institutions: The Way Forward” in Lagos, the CIBN President noted that the institute wants to restore the old glory that banking has, maintaining that, “that is the reason we needed to create awareness about ethical dilemma one has to face in this country.” According to him, “It is very important for us because at the forefront is ethics and professionalism in the banking sector. “The moral conduct, because as a steward of resources for people, we must be found ethical and like we have rightly said, we need to uphold the ethics because of the low the standard we have beginning to see and inform the choice of the theme.” He appealed to bankers to remain faithful to the oath they took under the code of conduct that CIBN has, stating that it is very important due to the fact that they occupy in the wheel of progress of the nation’s economy. In his words, “If we do not intermediate properly and in a moral and ethical manner, we may not realize the dream of the country is great. So, it is important that bankers take seriously the issue of ethics and professionalism.” The Deputy Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Financial Systems Stability Directorate, Mrs Aishah Ahmad, while speaking with the journalists said that, the work of the CIBN is very important. She said the commitment of CIBN to uphold the highest level of ethics and professional standard in the banking industry is really critical and CBN is in full support. According to her, “The responsibility is to conduct ourselves both in our personal and professional life with the high standards to be role models and mentors to other professionals in the banking industry and also to support the institute in its broad in terms of what is trying to do in building capacity of bankers and their professionalism. “We all need to build in ourselves sense of integrity and doing the right thing. “Usually, when you are very clear about your values, it is easier to solve the ethical dilemma. “So, I will like to thank the CIBN for putting this together and continue to encourage them to persist in their commitment to enhancing the level and standards of professionals that are working in the Nigerian financial services sectors.” However, the CIBN at the event conferred its honorary fellowship awards on seven distinguished bankers in recognition of their contributions to the banking industry and the nation’s economy. The awardees are the Deputy Governor of CBN, Financial Systems Stability Directorate, Mrs Aishah Ahmad; the Deputy Governor, CBN, Corporate Services Directorate, Mr Edward Adamu and Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Guaranty Trust Bank Plc, Mr Segun Agbaje. Others are Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Zenith Bank Plc, Mr Peter Amangbo; Chairman, Goldfield Group, Mr Abimbade Adeshina; Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Development Bank of Nigeria Plc, Mr Anthony Okpanachi, and Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Jaiz Bank Plc, Mr Hassan Usman.