By Memoye Oghu, Port HarcourtThe level of insecurity, particularly to lives and property in Rivers state has taken another worrisome dimension as no day passes without one or more souls being dispatched to the great beyond. More than seven persons have been reportedly sent to their early graves in less than 48 hours in the state since April 27, heightening fears of insecurity in the minds of many residents, not only in Port Harcourt, the state capital, but also throughout the state. Two days ago in Eneka, a suburb of the Port Harcourt in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of the state, a group of gunmen in a Toyota SUV vehicle, all attired in black stormed a football viewing centre in the area and opened fire on unsuspecting football fans watching a Premier League game.According to eye witness accounts,  the unknown gunmen who arrived at the viewing centre, disembarked from their vehicle and without saying a word to anyone began to spray bullets on the unsuspecting football fans.“We thought they were security operatives because sometimes they do come to watch games here too. But, we were surprised when they started shooting at everyone. At end of their operation, five people were dead and several others injured,” an eyewitness who refused his name in print informed our correspondent. A visit to the venue of incident by our reporter, shows that the viewing centre was still in disarray with broken bottles of beer, upturned chairs and blood stains all over the floor.It was further gathered that one of the victims whose identity could not be immediately ascertained, but was described as a 22 -years -old man, hoping to gain admission into any of the tertiary institutions in the state has since been buried. All efforts to speak to the deceased elder brother proved abortive.That same day in the early hours of Sunday morning, some gunmen reportedly invaded Edeoha community in Ahoada East Local Government Area of the state and killed more than three persons as well as injuring others. No one knows the motive of the attackers, but many in the community believe it may not be unconnected with cult gang rivalry. A resident of the community, Mr. Ogo, told our correspondent on phone that one of the victims died on the way to the University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital.There are unconfirmed news of killings and kidnappings across the state as at the time of filing this report. However, the state Police Spokesman, Nnamdi Omoni confirmed that only three persons were killed in the football viewing centre incident. He further promised to get back to us on the Edeoha killings. Meanwhile, the state police command has advised motorists to avoid the East – West Highway, now considered a den of robbers, killers and kidnappers by diverting to the Owerri – Port Harcourt Road from Elele Alimini once it is after 6pm.