Buying of car’s directly from USA through AWOOF Cars Auction Company has been recommended by Nollywood Actor – Femi Branch. Whether fairly used or brand new for Nigerian use, it is a very affordable way by which most Nigerians purchase their dream cars nowadays. Awoof Cars Company conducts its business in a manner that satisfaction is guaranteed such that there wouldn’t have to be any issue with our clients. The difference between the rich and the poor is information. When prospective buyers ask if we are a car dealer, we tell them we are not, but a broker: A Broker is a company or an individual who arranges transactions between the seller and the buyer for a commission when the deal is executed or about to commence. Our services attract a flat charge of N100, 000. You can pay for any car we won directly to the auction by yourself. When we. WIN/BUY your car as far as you have a domiciliary account with any
Nigerian bank in Nigeria or we help you pay, we will land the car in a more
affordable price that fit your budget compared to what the dealers are
selling here in Nigeria and that is if you follow our processes.
This is what our company has for clients
compared to what dealers in
Nigerian will offer you. 1. We make sure we buy cars that are affordable and fit your
budget. Do
you know you can actually get any TOYOTA products or any type of products
for a low budget as far as you are ready to pay a security deposit? We
shall teach you how it works. We have been in existence since 2014. You
just have to trust our company and be ready to work with us, if not you
will keep spending a lot for a car dealer; we understand you might be
skeptical to part with your money pending the arrival of the car. We only
require a security deposit of N150, 000 (Refundable fees) to kick start
the process. This deposit is to guarantee us that you are serious in
dealing and can be called back. If you change your mind, we will honorably
refund the money within 72 hours. Kindly note that there is no way you can
get a car with a budget less than N800,000 Including clearing as many
people are requesting from us. Avoid any prices or transaction that is too
low or real to be true. 2. We will buy a car that has a SECURED AIRBAG; do you know that
72 per
cent of cars on Nigerian roads do not have an Airbag? These are the
cheapest cars in auction and that is what the dealers will sell for you
after fixing them in Nigeria. They do this because some people just want
to buy cars they see irrespective of the condition. We make sure we do not buy
front damaged car for you, do you know that 34 per cent of cars in Nigeria have
a flood history and that is why the air-conditioner will
never work perfectly. Ordinarily, a good car should have a chilly
air-conditioner. 4. At Awoof cars, we will never buy a severely damaged vehicle for
you but
you can get a car that has a dent at the back and not in the front because
of the engine. Any car that has had head-on collision, there is this
tendency that the engine would have been affected. Actually, up to 80 per
cent of cars on Nigeria road have a history of being front damaged.
Below is how our services work 1. Visit www.copart.com or www.iaai.com and search for any car of
your
choice. Send us the LOT NUMBER which is 8 digit numbers, or we can help you
search and send you three different pictures and you will have to
choose one that we can then bid on. 2. You pay for BUYING, TRUCKING and SHIPPING 72 hours after we won
the bid which covers 50% of the transaction. You get dock receipt of the car in
4 days after the payment is made to the auction company, We then send you the
bill of lading after Four weeks as we ship by Grimardli and AES either by (Roll
on Roll on) or( Containerized). Our company will handle the clearance and you
pay us balance of 50% after you come to our office for inspection or when we
deliver to you in any state in Nigeria. You can take a step of faith by
visiting our physical office and meet with our representatives who will show
you how our process works. We thank those of you that have done business with
us, those that have visited our office, Those that have sent money without
coming and those that have just placed their order, as we urge them to keep
referring us to their relatives, friends, colleagues and associates as we appreciate
you all for the referrals Visit our website today to get started, or walk into our main
office in
Lagos.
AWOOF CARS AUCTION SERVICES INT’L
LIMITED
35B ABISOGUN
LEIGH, OGBA, IKEJA, Lagos
Phone: 01-2911515, 08023851599
what -sap: +2348023851599
Email: info@awoofcarsauction.com
Website: www.awoofcarsauction.com