The Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency (NIHSA) has urged stakeholders and states prone to flood on the need for adequate flood prevention, mitigation and preparedness during this rainy season. Mr. Clement Onyeaso Nze, the Director-General of NIHSA, made the call in a statement by Mrs. Ifeoma Ndefo, Assistant Director and Head, Press and Public Relations on Tuesday in Abuja. Nze identified non adherence to early flood warnings by NIHSA and Nigeria Meteorological Agency (NiMet) as the major problem militating against prevention, mitigation and preparedness against flood disasters in Nigeria. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that NIHSA in its recent Annual Flood Outlook (AFO) identified some hydrological areas within nine sub-basins as prone to flood in 2019. The areas include Sokoto, Niger, Adamawa, Benue, Anambra, Imo, Edo, Delta, Rivers, Bayelsa, Cross River, Lagos, Ogun, Osun, Oyo and Yobe states. “These are states predicted as highly probable to flood risk areas in 2019, covering about 74 local government areas, also flood incidents will be less probable in about 279 LGAs. “Moreover, the 2019 AFO report stated that coastal states like Bayelsa, Cross River, Delta, Lagos, Ondo and Rivers are expected to experience coastal flooding. “This is due to rise in sea level and tidal surge which will impact on fishing, habitation and coastal transportation,“ Nze said. The NIHSA director said that the 2019 AFO predictions were scientifically crafted and strict adherence were advised to the state governments in particular. He advised the general public to desist from building structures on water ways, blocking drainages to avoid actions that could impede free and easy passage of water through its natural courses to avert devastating flood disasters. Nze said that the agency’s mandate was to provide timely, accurate data and information to guide stakeholders to ensure that water being a free gift from God was properly managed in ways that make it more beneficial and less disastrous. “NIHSA works with key stakeholders like the Nigeria Meteorological Agency (NiMet), National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), National Orientation Agency (NOA). “We also work with State Emergency Management Agencies (SEMAs) to ensure that proactive steps are taken to avert flood disasters in the country,“ he said. (