Doosuur Iwambe, Abuja The Primate, Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion), the Most Rev. Nicholas Okoh, has called on Christian’s to always uphold the virtues of truth and peace. OKoh, who gave the advice during the dedication of St. James Anglican Church in Abuja on Sunday, said that Nigeria could only develop when there is harmonious coexistence among the citizens. While expressing gratitude to God for the completion of the mighty edifice, the primate thanked the parishioners for their support and patience. He urged members, especially Church leaders to put away every form of tribalism and rely on God for guidance in every decision. He further charged the Church to ensure that every decision taken in the building must be based on the Scriptures, on Christ alone; on God’s grace, faith in Jesus Christ, and the glory of God. He said: “The Church can never go wrong, when it bases its decisions on these five principles”. Okoh, thanked the Lord for making the house possible quoting a Bible portion, which says, “Unless God builds a house, they labour in vain that build it”. He said the Church having been dedicated has been set apart in the name of God, has become the territory and colony of Jesus Christ, the home of Holy angles who ministers, the tone of the saints visible and invisible because the presence of God is in the Church. According to Primate Okoh, because the presence of God is in the just dedicated Church, miracles will happen, prayers will be answered. He highlighted various ways of dedication like men set apart for the work of the ministry and made holy to bless the people of God, the pulpit, lectern, baptismal font, altar table, priestly chairs, including choir stalls and choir robes which are not ordinary dresses but sanctified dresses. The Metropolitan and Primate of All Nigeria added that by the singular act of the dedication of the Church, there is now the handing and taking over by God; hence all the evil and demonic forces have been expelled, their meetings powers and assembly have been disorganised and the Church has become part and parcel of heaven, the colony of Jesus Christ. Present at the event was the Imo State Governor-elect, Hon Emeka Ihedioha, who is also a member of the church.