Tunde Opalana, Abuja The renewed probing and persecution of Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki might not be unconnected with the tight race for the leadership positions of the 9th National Assembly, the Daily Times has learnt. It was gathered that Saraki is been hunted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) afresh on the order of the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to whittle down his influence in the choice of Principal Officers of both chambers of the National Assembly. The Daily Times learnt that the ruling party took the option of the renewed attack to divert Saraki’s attention from gathering support for a candidate opposing to Senator Ahmed Lawan, the preferred candidate of the Presidency for position of Senate President. Though the PDP is yet to officially declared its support for any of the trio of Lawan, Ali Ndume and Danjuma Goje, the Presidency believed Saraki, though not returning, has been working assiduously for the emergence of  any other person than Lawan. Saraki, it was further gathered,  considered the deft move as a last stroke to get back at the Presidency for his persecution while in office. A reliable source informed the Daily Times that Saraki rebuffed effort at lobbying him during  breaking of fast event with the President few days ago at the Aso Rock Villa, where President Buhari regrettably said he never enjoyed expected good relationship with the leadership of the outgoing 8th NASS. Saraki, it was further learnt, deliberately avoided the purported parley meant for him to jettision his planned support for Danjuma Goje and rally the support of PDP Senators for Lawan. As the June 9 inauguration of the 9th Assembly draw closer, the Presidency was said to be gripped with the fear of being stabbed in the back again  as it happened in 2015. The Presidency, it was learnt was advised by the Adams Oshiomhole led National Executive of APC to handle Saraki with fierce grip to humble him  to succumb to pressure of supporting Lawan. Also, the source told the Daily Times that the Presidency was not deceived by the declaration made by Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu not to contest any position,  as it has asked anti-graft agencies to harass him with investigations bordering on his properties. Ekweremadu, it was learnt is deeply involved in the plan to guide PDP Senators on the choice of person for Senate Presidency. The Daily Times was informed that Saraki, Ekweremadu and a few PDP Senators may face more persecution in the coming weeks as the APC is leaving no stone unturned.