By Samuel Luka, Bauchi The newly posted Police Commissioner to Bauchi state, Habu Ahmadu has expressed optimism that the police under his watch will overcome the emerging security challenges in the state. Ahmadu, who stated this on Wednesday while addressing journalists at the Police Officers Mess, Jos Road in Bauchi, stated that “by the grace of God, we shall collectively surmount the emerging security challenges in tune with the inspector-general of police vision.” The police commissioner who called for integrated intelligence-led community policing in curbing crimes stressed the need for community support to ensure its effectiveness in the prevention of crimes and violent conflicts in the state. He said the objectives of modern policing/crime control in tune with global best practices is to amongst others contribute toward the creation of reinforcement of trust in communities. “Our strategy would generally be integrated intelligence-led community policing which transcends just law enforcement to embrace human security and development services, but necessarily require diverse expertise and whole community support. “Our policing have to be driven by fore knowledge and guided by intelligence, strategic operational and tactical levels,” he explained. The commissioner said that policing should be proactive, preventative in orientation and conducted within the context of public ownership, partnership, participation, problem solving and community support. He called for the collective and individual responsibilities of personnel to ensure law and order, prevention of crime or effective control within the ambit of the law and respect for human rights with a sense of self -accountability. According to him, the various policing methods are directed at prolific offender management, crime hot spots policing and managing major public gathering and crime prone events within dedicated systems of community partnership, reiterating policing methods will be directed at effective prevention of crime and violent conflicts, and decisive response capabilities. “We shall therefore, have to identify our respective and collective area(s) of responsibility in terms of geographical areas, demography, social, economic crime maps of the areas and command to guide intelligence led operations,” Ahmadu added.