Alade Tasma The Chief Whip of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Rotimi Abiru has given an assurance that the incoming Assembly with an all All Progressives Congress (APC) members of the Lagos 9th Assembly will serve and be fair to all Lagosians irrespective of ethnicity, religious and political party affiliations for the betterment of the residents and progress of the state.The Lagos 9th Assembly according to the lawmaker who will be returning to the House for the fourth consecutive term, will be proclaimed on the 10th of June. The lawmaker who represents Shomolu constituency 02, made this disclosure while speaking with  newsmen shortly after his sponsored annual Ramadan lecture and Iftar held at Gbagada Estate, Gbagada, Lagos. This year’s edition which is season12 of the lecture was titled, “Next Level- Islamic Perspective” was attended by hundreds of Islamic faithful from the length and breadth of Shomolu and environs. Abiru gave an assurance that the State Assembly would not be a rubber stamp to the executive saying the Assembly has always been doing its best irrespective of how Lagosians look at it. “You will agree with me that there is a clear separation of powers in the constitution. But just as there is independence of each arm of government, there is also interdependence. This has to be imbibed for good governance and for the betterment of the state. “You can be rest assured that you will get the best of the 9th Assembly come 10th of June when the Assembly will be proclaimed,” Abiru stated. While appreciating his constituents for trooping out en masse for the Iftar, the lawmaker enjoined them to maximise the benefits of Ramadan by being dedicated to holiness during and after the fast. “It is for each and every one of us to do what we are supposed to do with the fear of God. We are all in the position of leadership; we should know that we are all accountable for our deeds. “The lesson here is that beyond avoiding eating, this is the period we need to move closer to God. It is a period whereby every good that is done to humanity is rewarded in many folds,” the lawmaker concluded. Earlier, the Chief Imam of Lagos State House of Assembly Mosque, Dr. Abdullateef Abdulhakeem who was the guest lecturer at the event revealed that Islamic perspectives on next level are meant to identify those who deserves your gratitude and being grateful to Him. The Imam who is also the State Commissioner for Home Affairs further revealed that Allah is the best of all those who grants favour, he argued that without Allah’s leave, every other person striving to give you favour would be in nullity. “If politicians had sought to please Allah in accordance to His dictates, they would have achieved greatness in contrast to seeking the favour of political leaders. “After appreciating who has done the best in your life and that is our creator, the next step is to worship Him. “Then this should be followed by ‘O to ge’ enough is enough and that has to be abstinence from sins,” the Islamic Cleric explained.