Isaac Oguntoye – Lagos Hospital and Prison Welfare Initiative Is an initiative that major on the welfares of hospitals and prisons in Africa with a great focus on Nigeria, making impact and liberating the minds of inmates to live a better life after their jail term. According to Dr. Nathaniel Oyinloye through HPWI has been able to touch life, both in prison and outside Prison. It will interest you to know that the organization has the first Crèche in the Nigerian prison; open the first Charity shop in Nigeria, established the first training Barbing Academy in the Federal Republic of Nigeria, inaugurates the first National Open University study centre in prison, we give support to musical band and theatre group in prison and we have create Correctional Football Club CFC. When he was asked about how they source for funds, he said “We collaborate with Nigerians (sharing the same vision of helping one another) to get financial support and administer wellness, rehabilitation and humanitarian services. We believe that loving our neighbours as ourselves is our duty as man to another man.” “We have engaged ourselves in different kinds of Cooperate Social Responsibilities CSR, projects, programmes and initiatives; therefore demonstrate to our sacrifices of love. For us, CSR is a matter of life and death it is not an option. And I will like to invite you to join us in this journey as we continue to impact our world optimistically.” Some of the organization’s achievement includes; “Establishment of the first Crèche in the Nigeria Prison, opening of the first Charity Shop in Nigeria, the first training Barbing Academy in the Federal Republic of Nigeria young children Prison (Borstal Training Institution, Adigbe, Abeokuta, Ogun State, the first National Open University of Nigeria Study Centre in the Prison at Ibara Prison, Abeokuta, Ogun State, Supporting the Musical Band and Theatre Group in the Prison, Ibara Prison, Supporting the Football Club in the Prison (Donated Cup for yearly competition) Ibara Prison, Birthing the HPWI Football Correctional Club CFC in the Prison and graduation of 49 inmates in ilaro prison (hpwi skills and acquisitions project) However, the organization is calling on individual, organizations (government and non-governmental) and private organization for a good support both in partnership or kind gesture.