Chioma Joseph, Lagos Policemen from the Lagos State  Command, have arrested three suspects for hijacking and diverting a truck load of powder milk worth 23 million. The suspects – Adesoji Olarewaju, 43, Sunday Ejirille, 52,  and James Oja, 45, were tracked to Abia State where they were arrested and the goods recovered. It was gathered that the driver of the truck, James Oja, had been employed by a logistics company to transport the thirty tons of powder milk from Lagos to Abuja. Oja had however, connived with Olarewaju and Ejirille to diverted the truck to an unknown destination. The State Commissioner of Police, CP Zubairu Muazu, had received a petition about the matter on May 13. The CP immediately ordered a team of policemen to investigate the matter, the suspects were traced to Abia State, where the truck and goods were recovered. Parading the suspects at the command headquarters, Ikeja on Thursday, Muazu said, “ The notorious criminals who specialized in diverting and stealing company goods were arrested in Abia State and the goods recovered.” Ejirille, alleged to be the brain behind the diversion, denied being part of the criminal act. He claimed he had only gone to collect his money for the supply of tyres he sold to the other suspects. “ I sold some tyres to Emeka and he called me to come and collect the money for the tyre , that was when I was arrested by the police, I was not  aware they were carrying a stolen goods, I only sold tyres to them. I didn’t know anything about the stolen milk, I only sell tyres.” Countering Ejirille’s confession, Oja however said that Ejirille was aware of the stolen goods and that it was the same Ejirille that invited him to where he was arrested. Oja said “ I was at home, when I got a call from Ejrille that I should help them get people to buy the goods. He was aware that the goods were stolen one. I was not part of the diversion.” Muazu said, that the suspects would be  charged to court after completion of the investigation.