Mathew Dadiya, Abuja The Nigerian government has assured the government The Gambia that it would give them all the technical support needed to succeed in the implementation of the Single Treasury Account (TSA). The acting Accountant-General of the Federation (AGF), Mr Mohammed Kudu Usman gave the assurance on Friday, when he received The Gambian delegation that was in Nigeria to understudy the workings of the TSA in Nigeria so that they can replicate same in the Republic of Gambia. Usman said that both the Accountant-General and the whole of the Treasury House are prepared to share experience with the Team on TSA as well as a tap from the Gambians’ success story in GIFMIS. He, however, recalled how the  Gambia had hosted delegations from Nigeria to the Gambia on a study tour of GIFMIS about 15 years back. The acting Accountant General itemized the activities lined up for the team which includes, lectures by subject matter experts, interactive sessions, meeting with key stakeholders. The Gambian team would also visit Lagos State where they are scheduled to meet some of Nigeria’s key players in the e-payments and FINTECH space that he described as vital. The team had earlier paid a courtesy call on the Minister for Finance, Mrs Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed in her office, where she advised that relevant States that have implemented TSA successfully in Nigeria should either be visited or invited over to Abuja to avail the Gambian TSA team their experiences so that they would be properly equipped to successfully implement TSA in the Gambia. The Director TSA in the office of the Accountant-General of the Federation, Mr Sylva Okolieaboh, enjoined the visiting team to pay attention to every little item slated for discussion. He gave his word to deliver on the promise of the Honourable Minister to supply all their needs in terms of adequate knowledge of TSA so that the dream of a standard TSA in the Gambia can come to reality. The Gambian Team was led by the Permanent Secretary Mrs Ada Gaye, and also on the team is the Accountant-General, Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs, Republic of The Gambia, Mr Momodou Lamin Bah. Both spoke passionately of their expectations of learning a whole lot from Nigeria to enable them to break the bottlenecks that might likely want to impede their progress in the delivery of TSA in the Gambia.