Mutiat Alli It was a combination of football, comedy and music over the weekend when StarTimes and Bundesliga International treated their fans and cus-tomers to a Bundesliga funfest Experience at the Fun Factory, in Lagos. StarTimes and Bundesliga have announced that legendary footballer, Jay-Jay Okocha, a former Bundesliga star will take part in a three-day visit to Ni-geria from 25th – Saturday 27th of April 2019 along with other Bundesliga representatives to interact with Bundesliga fans, StarTimes subscribers and to promote the league among Nigerian youths and football lovers. Part of the activities to celebrate the Fan Fest event held on Saturday was a 5- Aside football competition that involves children within the age bracket of 8- 13years from selected schools fully kitted with different Bundesliga club Jersey like; Bayern Munich, Borussia Dortmund, Borussia Mönchen-gladbach, RB Leipzigb, Schalke 04, TSG Hoffenheim among others. Out of the Six Teams that participated in the children’s competition, the two finalists, Ghetto Light lost 7-6 on penalties to Ablaze after the regula-tion time had ended goalless. Apart from the sporting and video games experienced by the children, there was a celebrity match that took place amongst the German Embassy in Ni-geria, StarTimes staff, The Bundesliga Legend and media practitioners. The presence of former Super Eagles captain and Bundesliga legend, Austin Okocha, added glamour to the Celebrity legend 5 -Aside football competi-tion. Jay Jay Okocha emerged champions in the celebrity mini tournament with the former Eintracht Frankfurt of Germany emerging the highest goal scorer and Most Valuable Player. The fans also had opportunity to watch two live matches involving Borussia Dortmund and Schalke 04, which ended 4-2 in favour of the away team while Stuttgart defeated Borussia Monchengladbach 1-0 The event also had in attendance celebrity guest Dr. Sid while performance of live entertainment featuring one of the top musicians in the country, The Legbegbe Crooner ‘’ Mr. Real’’ added glamour to the event as he thrills fans to his non-stop popular jamz. StarTimes is the leading digital-TV operator in Africa, covering 80% of the continent’s population with a massive distribution network of over 200 brand halls, 3,000 convenience stores and 5,000 distributors. It owns a fea-tured content platform, with 440 authorized channels.