By John Ndu, Awka The state secretary of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Barrister Tony Ifeanya, says no political party can stop APGA from taking firm control of Anambra State. He said that at the end of Governor Willie Obiano’s second term in office, it would be 16 years APGA has continued to deliver democracy dividends in Anambra State. Ifeanya’s confidence in APGA retaining Anambra State was borne out of a statement credited to the state chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Anambra, one Basil Ejidike, who purportedly stated that APC would end APGA’s rule in Anambra State. The state secretary of APGA  who spoke to our correspondent at the weekend in an exclusive interview at the party secretariat, Government House, Awka, stressed that the APC chairman was building castle in the air as well as day-dreaming because he believes that APC has no root in Anambra State. He said: “The chairman of APC is a dreamer because no party can boast of pushing APGA aside in Anambra State because we have over the years consolidated our hold on Anambra State because of our good performance. “Peter Obi served two terms in APGA and he did very well. We have been here since 2006 and by the time Obiano completes his second tenure, we would have been 16 years in the governance of Anambra State.” According to him, ex-Governor Peter Obi did a good job and handed over to Governor Willie Obiano who he said was currently doing a better job judging from his pragmatic approach to human and infrastructural development. Ifeanya pointed out that the third phase of Governor Willie Obiano’s N20 million community choose-your-project scheme was currently in progress across the state. He said the first and second phases of the grassroots development initiative had been completed across Anambra and that every community could now boast of indigenous projects built by them courtesy of the state government’s grassroots development initiative. The APGA chieftain also took cognisance of the fact that agricultural revolution was ongoing in the state and that Obiano’s dogged approach to security of lives and property in Anambra was second to none because he disclosed that the governor was currently rated the best security conscious governor in Africa. He said: “Anambrarians have crossed the red sea and they can never go back to Egypt again. Any attempt for them to set us back will be resisted because we are seeing the dividends of democracy under APGA and the Governor is willingly working.” The former local government chairman of Ayamelum noted that Anambra is the headquarters of the APGA and that the party could not afford to relinquish its hold to any other political party let alone the APC