By Ukpono Ukpong, Abuja Disturbed by the growing rate of insecurity in the nation’s capital, the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has announced its plans to embark on a comprehensive review of abandoned, uncompleted buildings, parks and event centres that pose security threats. This was disclosed by the Executive Secretary, Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA), Umar Gambo Jibrin at a press briefing in Abuja. According to him, it was resolved at the FCT executive council meeting with the Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello that after necessary procedures, buildings that contravenes the Abuja master plan would be pulled down. He explained that the new initiative was as a result of the review of policy issues and programmes of development within the FCT by the executive council. Furthermore, the executive secretary disclosed that no fewer than 215 abandoned buildings, 95 uncompleted buildings, 879 vacant plots, six without approval and 739 plots duly allocated, 15 plots which have been revoked, 10 withdrawn, with 114 having no records are posing serious security threats to the nation’s capital. “With the increasing rate of insecurity across the country, we have resolved to review all structures in the FCT, especially those that are not in line with the master plan. “The exercise is not targeted at any individual, but to restore green areas as captured in the master plan. All agencies involved have been directed to take measures that would assist in the demolition exercise.” Earlier, the Director, Abuja Geographic Information Systems (AGIS), Dr. Isa Jalo, said the new park policy would address the lingering issues of converting gardens for other uses. Similarly, the Director, Directorate of Road Traffic Services (DRTS), Wadata Aliyu Bodinga, reiterated the ban on motor-cycles and tricycles in the city, noting that anyone offender will never be released ever again. He appealed to the military and para-military personnel who use motorcycles for official purposes to always ensure that they appear in their uniform or risk the seizure of the motorcycles. “Those on official assignment must be well kitted with reflective jackets and other means of identification to avoid the operatives of the directorate and other security agencies from impounding such motorcycles,” Bodinga added. While calling for support from the general public, he called on Abuja residents to boycott the patronage of commercial motor-cycles, especially in restricted areas so as to discourage their activities.