By Doosuur Iwambe, Abuja Alhaji Lai Mohammed, the Minister of Information and Culture, has tasked the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) to rid the institute of quacks in order to ensure that quality standard is maintained like in other professions. Speaking during the 2019 Annual Conference of the Institute in Abuja on Thursday, Mohammed reiterated that the Information Ministry will not relent in its support to the NIPR to ensure that the menace of quackery is completely nipped in the bud. Represented by the Director, Publication and Documentation, Ministry of Information, Mr Charles Ojugbana, Mohammed said the federal government has made it mandatory for all information officers under the ministry to belong to the NIPR. According to him, the profession and institute has grown to heights that everyone is appreciative of. He recalled that 10 years ago many government institutions did not have any aspect of their organisation specifically caved out for public relations adding, “but today, we are happy to recognise that even the professional service like the Nigerian Army, Navy, Air force, Customs and Immigration and other para-military organisations have directors specifically in charge of public relations. “We have also sought and obtained the approval of President Muhammadu Buhari that all major ministries must create specifically department of public relations with a directors in the ministry as the head’’, he said. Mohammed added that in 2018, the ministry resurrected the flagship publication of the Nigerian Monthly Magazine which could be read online in nine international languages and three major Nigerian languages of Igbo, Hausa and Yoruba. The languages the Minster said   include: Portuguese, Spanish, Chinese, Arabic, French and English. He urged the participants to maintain professionalism and abide by the ethics of the profession. Earlier, the NIPR President, Malam Mukhtar Sirajo, said the institute had intensified the fight against quackery in the profession. Sirajo said the institute had also activated the process of getting the Attorney-General of the Federation to constitute a tribunal to try interlopers. “The tribunal will try interlopers that have failed to comply with the legal requirements that anyone gainfully employed in the areas of public relations must be certified by the NIPR. “There is no more room for quackery; NIPR has provided the opportunity for people who wish to be on the right side of the law by properly registering as members of the institute through its master class series.”