By Tunde Opalana, Abuja The Senate on Tuesday met for almost two and half hours with the Inspector -General of Police, Adamu Mohammed in a close door session to discuss ways of finding solutions to the lingering insecurity across the country, The inspector – general was on hand to honour the summons of the Senate extended to him on April 20, asking him to appear before it and brief senators on the insecurity situation in the country. The Senate charged the police boss to effect drastic changes in the conduct of officers and men of the police, especially in the area of discipline, promising to accord legislative backing to tackle the funding inadequacies of the police to ensure the security of lives and property of Nigerians While appreciating the Senate for giving room for the rapport in solving the nation’s mounting security problems, Adamu said the number of personnel in the police is grossly inadequate to combat the enormity of crime in the country and sought government’s approval to recruit more men to make the police more efficient and effective. At the resumption of plenary after two and half hours closed door parley, Senate President Bukola Saraki disclosed that the Senate and the police hierarchy deliberated on the challenging issues of armed banditry, robbery, terrorists’ activities and other security challenges in the country. He hoped that the efforts of the police in addressing the situation and challenges will yield the expected results in terms of improved security of lives and property, stating that the inspector-general “promised to address areas that have to do with the discipline of officers that have been found wanting. “He assured that efforts would be made on the situation particularly, on the Abuja-Kaduna Highway and also on the area of intelligence and security while the Senate promised and reiterated its commitment on areas of solving the issues. “The Senate is ready to give adequate funding that is required in order to make the police to be able to combat the necessary stress to our security.” Addressing journalists after the closed session, IGP Adamu said “we discussed the issue of insecurity within the country and we have expanded a lot of strategies that we have put in place that are working. “And we reviewed the strategies put in place in order to mitigate some of the challenges that have emerged. They (senators) appreciated what we presented and also, they gave suggestions on how to enhance the strategy that we are deploying. “They have agreed to support us in every aspect, every area that we need in order to do our job to make the country safe. Policing is dynamic and you cannot give ultimatum to deal with a crime. “The number of personnel we have can never be enough and the government is doing its best and every year we are recruiting more policemen. This year, we have about 10, 000 again to recruit. At least, the number is growing. Very soon, we will meet up with the required number that is needed for us to deploy to fight crime.” On the alleged rape of some arrested social sex workers by policemen, he said the police is setting up a panel to investigate the matter, assuring that anybody found wanting and proven to have part in the act will be made to face the law.