Ukpono Ukpong, Abuja Members of Staff of National Youth Service Corps have been warned to guide against acts that may jeopardize the gains made in the deployment of Information Communication Technology solutions into the Scheme’s operations. The Director-General of NYSC, Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim gave this warning in his address at the training workshop organized for ICT Desk Officers drawn from the 36 NYSC State Secretariats and the FCT held at the National Directorate Headquarters and FCT Secretariat. The Director-General noted that the ability of the service corps to keep up with current trends has brought about improvement in the scheme’s operations, but stressed that the service corps cannot afford to take for granted threats such as data breaches, malicious insider activities and account hacking amongst others. He urged the participants to work towards the perfection of their official assignments on the eNYSC platform. “There is need for you to ensure seamless operations on the platform. There is a constant revolutionary shift in the way the world works, especially with high-speed machines now performing many functions and NYSC cannot afford to be left behind by this fast moving technology train”, the DG said. Ibrahim added that the Scheme has recorded giant strides through the introduction of biometric verification of Corps Members which has curbed abseentism and fraud, online registration for prospective Corps Members, verification of prospective Corps Members during registration in camp. Others, according to the Director-General include; Senate upload module for Corps-Producing institutions, automation of the printing of Certificate of National Service and Exemption Certificates. The Director, ICT, Mrs Christy Uba in her address stated that Management of the Scheme is committed to keep ICT Desk Officers abreast of current trends in Information Technology through training. “This workshop will avail participants the opportunity to discuss the challenges, exchange ideas as well as proffer workable solutions that will enhance effectiveness and productivity”, Uba added. According to the Director, the workshop entitled; “Enhancing ICT Desk Officers’ Operations on the NYSC Integrated System in line with Modern Information Technology Innovations”, is aimed at equipping the Desk Officers with the requisite knowledge for the protection of database, computers, networks, programmes and data from unauthorized access and attacks.