By Tunde Opalana, Abuja The Senate on Thursday confirmed the appointment of Mr. Godwin Emefiele for a second term as governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria. This followed the consideration and adoption of the report of the Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and other Financial Matters at plenary. Presenting the report, Chairman of the Committee, Senator Rafiu Adebayo (Kwara South) said the committee found out that Emefiele in his first term in office employed his over three decades banking experience in reforming the apex bank. The committee affirmed that the CBN governor “has a firm grip of the monetary policy terrain, understands the nation’s economic environment and gives life to ailing banks. “He has performed creditably well in his first term; he is qualified for another term as CBN governor.” Emefiele’s screening goes into record as one of a very few public office appointees of the President whose confirmation was speedily processed. Recall that the committee screened Emefiele yesterday less than two weeks after his nomination by President Muhammadu Buhari. President Buhari had on May 8 written to the Senate requesting for the re-appointment of Emefiele for a second term of five years as CBN governor, following the expiration of his tenure. The letter from the President had read: “In view of the expiration of the first tenure of the current governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria on June 2 and pursuant to the provisions of Section 8 (1) and (2) of the Central Bank of Nigeria Act 2007, I hereby present for confirmation by the Senate Mr. Godwin Emefiele for re-appointment as governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria for a final term of five years. “It is my hope that the Senate will consider and confirm the nominee in the usual expeditious manner.” Emefiele will start his second term in office on June 3, 2019. The Senate also at plenary on Thursday concurred with the House of Representatives and passed six new bills. The new bills introduced, discussed and passed were the Federal Capital Territory Area Councils Service Commission (Est. etc) Bill, 2019 (HB,975), Public Holiday Act (Amendment) Bill, 2019 (HBs 918 &1529) which incorporates the declaration of June 12 as public holiday and Nigeria Natural Medicine Development Agency (Est. etc) Bill 2019 (HB1383). Others are Projects Development Agency Enugu (PRODA) (Est. etc) Bill, 2019 (HB 1542), Good Samaritan’s Bill, 2019 (HB 171) and Data Protection Bill, 2019 (HB 02).