Patrick Okohue The Ondo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has described as a wicked lie the rumour making the rounds that the state governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu(SAN) is hobnobbing with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), with a view to defecting to the party ahead of the next governorship election. The party said it does not only consider this rumour as wicked and a complete lie, it also urge the public to disregard it. The party in a statement by its Publicity Secretary in the State, Mr. Alex Kalejaye, said that though its initial thought was to ignore the rumour, but that on a second thought decide to react to it, “Though we would have preferred to ignore this irresponsible rumour, it is however expedient to dispel the rumour, so it will not pollute the minds of our members, and mislead the public.” Adding that, “the governor has never contemplated joining a party of the conservatives, let alone contesting election on its platform. He hails from the bedrock of progressives in the state, and has always been a progressive. “It is also imperative to inform the rumour-mongers that Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, is well respected and appreciated in the APC, and therefore not under any pressure whatsoever to flirt with another political party. “We are not unaware that some opposition parties are feeling intimidated by the sterling performance of the Akeredolu-led administration, and are planning to distract him through whatever means. This is a mission in futility. “The government is not perturbed about this or any other ploy. The revolution in the infrastructure development will be sustained; massive investment drive won’t slow down; commitment to workers’ welfare remains a top priority. “For the avoidance of doubt, the good people of Ondo State, who are the ultimate beneficiaries of these initiatives have consistently maintained that they are comfortable with the present administration, and will always support it. “The Ondo State APC is confident that the party will continue to fortify its strength, and support the government in its development drive, building of the party and its members. “The party appeals to its supporters to disregard the baseless and misleading publication, and consign it to the dustbin of history, where it rightly belongs,” Kalejaye said.