By Adewale Momoh, Akure The National Association of Nigeria Students (NANS) has alleged that the Governor of Ondo state, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu is out to destroy the education sector of the state. Addressing journalists in Akure, Ondo state capital on Tuesday, NANS National President, Comrade Danielson Akpan Bamidele emphasized that students are set to slug it out with the governor over his stance on the payment of tuition in the state owned universities. While stating that Ondo state was known to produce proactive policies for students by previous administrations in the state, the students’ body maintained that Akeredolu has come to destroy all the good legacies laid down by his predecessors. “We have come to the point whereby we will not allow any government to begin to run any state, especially the part of it that affects us directly in the manner that pleases he or she. “That is the state we have found ourselves in Ondo state where a governor who was elected to sustain the norm, to sustain the democratic principles of the state, one that has been in existence before he became governor, a solid and positive one at that. He should not only sustain it, but improve on it. “But, this is different with Gov. Akeredolu because first thing he wants to do when he came into office was to destroy the fabrics of the society. Starting from the health sector, the relation between the government and civil servants and to our amazement the educational aspect. “Ondo state is known for producing best of the best when it comes to education in this country. It is the bedrock of the country when it comes to education. Since the return to democracy in 1999, Ondo state has made education available for all; from primary level to secondary level. “Adefarati came, he initiated the free education policy, Agagu came, he sustained it. Mimiko spent two terms, he consolidated on it, but Gov. Akeredolu came and destroyed all of that. He didn’t stop at that; he went further by saying he will no longer pay WAEC fees for students of this state. Knowing fully well that it does not cost the state anything to take care of that annually. “If it did not cost the three predecessors that came before him anything then he should not complain,” Bamidele asserted.