The Handball Federation of Nigeria (HFN) on Thursday said all arrangements had been concluded for the first phase of the 2019 Prudent Energy Handball Premier League to begin on Monday. The HFN President, Samuel Ocheho, in a statement by his Media Assistant, Chukwuemeka Akisi, said the competition scheduled for Abuja was expected to end on May 25. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the competition, earlier scheduled for May 6 to May 19, was earlier moved due to what an official called logistics reason. Ocheho said the competition, being sponsored by oil and energy company Prudent Energy, will hold at the indoor sports hall of the Abuja National Stadium. “The second phase will hold later in the year in Lagos, but as it is now all arrangements have been put in place to make the competition a memorable event. “We have got everything in place for the league’s commencement, as we have the massive support of the sponsor, Prudent Energy. “The stage is set and the local organising committee (LOC) is ready for the arrival of the teams. “I believe strongly that the league this season will be better and even more prestigious than the ones held in previous years,” Ocheho said. The HFN President praised the league’s sponsors for identifying with the handball family in reviving the league. He disclosed that some innovation have been introduced to the competition. “Insurance cover has been provided for all participating teams, while prize money has also been introduced. “This year’s league will also retain the same features of last year. “The prize money is still N1 million for the winners, N750,000 for the first runners-up and N500,000 for the second runners-up, and this applies to both the male and female categories of the competition. “Also, every team is entitled to a subsidy of N250,000 in each of the competition’s phases. “Players, coaches and referees will be kitted by Prudent Energy too,” Ocheho added. He however called on other corporate organisations to partner with the HFN in the federation’s other programmes. NAN reports that the competition will see 12 male teams and 10 female teams participating, with Niger United and Plateau Peacocks as male and female defending champions respectively.(NAN)