Adewale Momoh, Akure National Association of Nigeria Students (NANS) has alleged that the Governor of Ondo State, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu is out to destroy the education sector of the state. Addressing journalists in Akure, Ondo State capital on Tuesday, NANS National President, Comrade Danielson Akpan Bamidele emphasized that students are set to slug it out with the governor over his stance on the tuition of the state owned universities. While stating that Ondo state was known to produce proactive policies for students by previous administrations in the state, maintained that Akeredolu has come to destroy all the good legacies laid down by his predecessors. “We have come to the point whereby we will not allow any government to begin to allow to run any state especially the part of it that affects us directly in the manner that pleases he or she. “That is the state we have found ourselves in Ondo State where a governor who was elected to sustain the norm, to sustain the democratic principles of the state, one that has been in existence of long before he became governor, a solid and positive one at that. He should not only sustain it but improve on it. “But this is different with Gov. Akeredolu because first thing he wants to do when he came into office was to destroy the fabrics of  
the society. Starting from the health sector, the relation between the government and civil servant and to our amazement, the educational aspect. “Ondo State is known for producing  best of the best when it comes to education in this country. It is the bedrock of the country when it comes to education. “Since the return to democracy in 1999, Ondo State has making education available for all. From primary level to secondary level. “Adefarati came, he initiated the free education policy, Agagu came, he sustained it. Mimiko spent two terms, he consolidated on it, but Gov Akeredolu came and destroyed all of that. He didn’t stop at that, he went further by saying he will no longer pay WAEC fee for students of this state. Knowing fully well that it does not cost the state anything to take care of that annually. “If it did not cost the three predecessors that came before him anything then he should not complain. Comrade Bamidele who narrated how Gov. Akeredolu walked them out of the government house during a meeting with him on how to resolve the issue maintained that the governor exhibited highest level of arrogance. He therefore, gave Akeredolu few hours ultimatum to reverse tuition fees in all tertiary institutions in the state or face the wrath of students across the country. “We have used all channels to address this matter but it has proven abortive. The governor has been showing carelessness and  insensitivity. “After meeting with the governor on the need to address the issue, he displayed the highest level of arrogance by telling us to go to hell, that his decision is final and that he is not going to reduce the school fees. He who ever cannot pay should go to hell that schooling is not by force. And this is somebody who benefitted from free education. “The governor threatened us that he is ready to order the security men to flush us out if we dare protest. Whereas peaceful protest is our right. It the last resort in negotiations. “I saw arrogance at its peak in Gov. Akeredolu when we met we him. It looks as if I was sitting with Adolf Hitler. It seems as if I was sitting in the presence of Pharaoh. Even when we met with President Buhari, he did not addressed us in such manner. But it is surprising that a governor whose power is limited within a state could put up that show of arrogance. “Two years is too long to chase him, it is now upon us, parents, students, artisans and entire people of Ondo State to stop this tyranny.” Reacting, Segun Ajiboye, the Chief Press Secretary to Gov Akeredolu stated that it was the NANS President that exhibited act arrogance when talking with the governor.