Ukpono Ukpong, Abuja Following reports of the growing rate of insecurity recorded in most states, the Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN) has called for the immediate overhaul of the security architecture in the country. As contained in a statement issued on Monday and signed by its spokesman, Mr Fortune Obi, said the immediate declaration of state of emergency was necessary because “the security networks as presently constituted have lost their value and focus. “We demand an immediate declaration of a state of emergency and overhaul of the nation’s security apparatus. “The growing rate of insecurity in the land has become a nightmare. Daily stories of killings in states, especially Borno, Zamfara, Kaduna, Sokoto, Yobe and Adamawa saturate the mass media. “The Boko Haram sect and violent herdsmen have been notorious for blood shedding and destruction of property of innocent victims. “We condemn in totality these atrocities and find the situation highly unacceptable.” While lamenting that the activities of the groups was putting Nigeria in negative perspective and scaring prospective investors, he appealed to the Federal Government to apply the same level of force used in curtailing the activities of MASSOB, OPC, MEND and lately IPOB in dealing with current security challenges that had led to wanton destructions of lives and property. He recalled that it was reported recently that Boko Haram hijacked a commercial bus conveying passengers from Port Harcourt and killed them, adding that “This occurrence and other related activities have made travelling through Nigerian roads, including the East-West road in Rivers a nightmare. “The Nigeria police in reaction to this declared a state-of-emergency on the Rumuji, Ndele, Rumuekpe axis on April 28.” He said that the story was not different in Lagos State with extra-judicial killings now the order of the day in the state with the existence of notorious cult groups cutting down lives at no provocation which have made citizens around the Ikorodu axis to live in constant fear. “The existence of these criminalities suggest leadership failure. That is why we call for a systematic mop up of arms and ammunitions illegally acquired by politicians in the build-up to the general elections, especially now that the electoral process is over.” Furthermore, he also criticized agencies in charge of the nation’s borders for not living up to their responsibilities “because of self-aggrandisement’’.