Bonaventure Melah Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State has written a condolence letter to the Senator representing Kogi West in the National Assembly, Senator Dino Melaye over the death of his mother, Deaconess Comfort Melaye which occurred a few days ago. Daily Times is with a copy of Governor Yahaya Bello’s letter. Senator Melaye had taken to Facebook and other social media platforms to announce the death of his mother whom he said was a pillar and irreplaceable gem in the life of his entire family. The announcement by Dino had received massive response from thousands of his friends, especially those on social media, who expressed shock at the news and wished the soul of his mother, a peaceful eternal rest while also praying that Dino receives divine comfort. In a surprise move, Governor Yahaya Bello also sent in a condolence letter to the Senator, saying he received the news of his mother’s death with shock as words are not enough to express his feelings over the development. In the letter, dated 3rd May, 2019 and signed by the Governor himself, Bello, who has been having political battles with the lawmaker also urged Dino to take solace in the worthy life lived by his mother as he, on behalf of himself, his family and the entire people of Kogi State offered deep condolences. The Governor also prayed that Almighty God may grant Dino and the rest of the Melaye family, the grace to endure the “irreparable loss,” and went ahead to request that the Senator keeps him and his administration notified of funeral plans. Read the full content of the letter below. 3 May, 2019 “SENATOR DINO MELAYE 
Ayetoro-Gbedde
Ijumu LGAKogi State CONDOLENCE LETTER ON THE PASSING OF YOUR BELOVED MOTHER, DEACONESS COMFORT MELAYE I received with shock, news of the passing of your mother, Deaconess
Comfort Melaye. “Words are insufficient to condole one on a mother’s death, but I do urge you to take solace in the life that she lived. “I have no doubt that mama’s impact and reach will continue to be felt
through her offspring. “On behalf of the Great People of Kogi State, my family and myself, I offer you our deep condolences while praying the Almighty God to grant you and the rest of the Melaye family the grace to endure this irreparable loss. “Do keep us notified of funeral plans. “Thank you. “YAHAYA BELLO  GOVERNOR OF KOGI STATE”