Chioma Joseph, Lagos A police Inspector attached to the Border Patrol Unit has been arrested for stealing a Bajaj motorcycle at the Morogbo area of Lagos. The motorcycle, which was recovered from a two-man robbery gang, intercepted by men of the vigilante group, was allegedly stolen by the Inspector, Dacha Ibrahim. While the suspects were being held by the vigilante personnel, Ibrahim was said to have stormed the scene in his car, identified himself as a policemen, and promised to hand the two robbery suspects over to the police. He allegedly discharged the vigilante personnel and drove the suspects to an enclosed location and asked them to run away. He subsequently made away with the motorcycle. Luck however ran out on him, when the Commander, Area ‘K’ Police Command,  Morogbo, ACP Hope Okafor, was briefed on the act. She immediately ordered for the arrest of the policemen on April 25, and the motorcycle recovered at his house. Following the arrest of the inspector, four community leaders in Ile Ekpo, Morogbo, Araromi and Oke Ogbe, all located along the Lagos/ Badagry Express Way have praised the Area Commander for not shielding her subordinate. According to the spokesman of the communities, Chief Abel Sesinu, who had raised alarm about the case not reported to the police, said “the doggedness of the Area Commander is worthy of commendation in area of crime fighting, she does not relent.  Whenever you contact her, she is quick to respond. “When I discovered that the case was not reported at the police station, I insisted on recovering the motorcycle and in the course of their search, one of the escaped robbers named Adesina was rearrested and taken to the police station at the directives of ACP Okafor. “In Adesina’s confessional statement to the police, he was  said to  have narrated how Inspector Ibrahim freed them and took away the stolen Motorcycle. “Despite obvious pressure from many quarters, the Area Commander provided all support and logistics that led to the arrest of Inspector Ibrahim on April 25th, 2019. We are happy that the robbers and police Inspector have been apprehended while the Motorcycle and Inspectors Honda car used in stealing the Motorcycle have been recovered. “As I am talking to you now, we heard that Inspector Ibrahim is facing police orderly room trial at the Provost section of police command Ikeja, while the robbers have been charged to court 2, Badagry Magistrate court. “We highly commend the crime fighting zeal of the female Area Commander in Area ‘ k’,” Sesinu concluded. The correspondent also learnt that the inspector is currently under going orderly room trial at the Provost section of the Lagos state command, Ikeja, Lagos. However,  it was gathered that the four members of the robbery gang,  Mutiu Lawal, Taiwo Toxin, Kareem Aderintan and Adesina Wasiu, allegedly conspired and robbed the said Bajaj Motorcycle from Emmanuel Godwin, a resident of Oke –  Egbe community.