Tom Okpe, Abuja The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State has suspended the former Governor of the state, Segun Oni for alleged involvement in anti-party activities. In a letter dated 1st May, 2019 and addressed to Oni, APC said it took the action over the failure of the party chieftain to appear before the ward executives to clear the allegations. The letter was signed by the chairman and secretary of Ifaki ward II, Shina Akinloye and Ogunyemi Taiwo, respectively and 24 other executive members in the ward. The APC executives in Ido /Osi local government, through its Assistant Financial Secretary and Assistant Organizing Secretary, A. Suleiman and Olanrewaju Olamope, respectively signed. Oni was also the Deputy National Chairman (South) of the party under the tenure of Chief John Oyegun. The letter titled: ‘Suspension From All Progressives Congress Ward II, Ifaki Ekiti’ reads: “Subject to Article 21 Subsections I, II and X of the APC constitution 2014 as amended, we, the  undersigned executive members of the APC hereby suspend you indefinitely from our great party, based on your refusal to honor our invitation for investigation and fact finding into the allegation of anti party activities leveled against you by the members of our party. “WE are by the copy of this letter informing both the local government and state working committee of the party for necessary information and action”. The party had in a letter dated 24 April 2019, signed by the Ward executives invited Oni to appear before a panel. The letter reads: “We the executive members of the APC in Ifaki Ward 2 hereby request your presence at the Illero town hall Ilogbe, Ekiti state to clear the air about the allegations by members of the party in your ward. “Kindly indicate by informing the party Chairman the convenient time and date to appear before members within the next seven days of the receipt of this letter”. The letter was said to be received on Oni’s behalf by Segun Adetunji on the 25 April, 2019. Segun Oni went to court immediately after the May 26, 2018 governorship election in the state challenging the election of Governor Kayode Fayemi’s eligibility to participate in the election.