Patrick Okohue The Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) has accused the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of embarking on a fruitless ego trip with its criticism of the Federal Government’s decision to schedule some inauguration Day ceremonies for June 12, 2019. The group described the opposition party as mischievous for suggesting that President Muhammadu  Buhari would be inaugurated for a second term in office on the day, as opposed to May 29, which the Constitution recognises as the inauguration day for a new political dispensation. This is even as the group accused the PDP of lacking capacity to appreciate good governance because it spent its 16 years in government mismanaging the country and entrenching wrongdoing as the norm BMO said in a statement signed by its Chairman, Niyi Akinsiju and Secretary, Cassidy Madueke that it was amused that a party that out rightly refused to recognise the sanctity of June 12 for 16 years now wants to be seen as the defender of Nigeria’s democratic culture. “Here is a party that is today speaking on what it described as sanctity of a day that it has the temerity to term as ‘our Democracy Day’. Yet, it was in total control of the Executive and Legislature at the centre for all of 16 years during which it had three different Presidents, but failed to do anything to accord official recognition to a day that it now agrees is important in the annals of Nigeria’s political history. “We are indeed shocked that the party whose members were the biggest beneficiaries of June 12 sacrifice now remembers that Moshood Abiola  ‘stood and died for democracy’, but did everything possible to stop him from being immortalised while it rode roughshod over Nigeria and Nigerians. “It is therefore nothing more than an ego trip to nowhere for PDP to criticise the Federal Government’s decision to move some second term inauguration ceremonies to June 12 and yet seek to claim the day as ‘our democracy day’. “But we need to let opposition elements know that whether inauguration ceremonies are held on May 29 or June 12, the President did enough in his first term to earn the trust of the majority of Nigerians that cast their ballots on February 23,” the group said. BMO also accused the PDP leaders of attempting to revise recent history with their claim of a stolen mandate which it insisted only existed in the imagination of their members and a group of political elite that is used to living off government patronage. “We wonder how long PDP would continue to live in a fool’s paradise with its constant refrain of a stolen mandate in an election that all its key campaign spearheads lost in their polling units, just like their presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar was unable to muster enough votes in his immediate constituency in Adamawa State to defeat President Buhari. “Many of their allies across the country, including former President Olusegun Obasanjo and the factional Afenifere leadership were also roundly rejected in their polling units, wards and states by the mass of Nigerians who were clearly averse to a return of the rapacious PDP years. “We at BMO again want to remind the party and its leaders that the February 23 Presidential election conferred 100% legitimacy on the President for a second term with a margin that is more than the combined population of Swaziland, Equatorial Guinea and Mauritius. “We are convinced that the Presidential election Petition Tribunal would consign their claim, which is predicated on fake INEC server result, to the dustbin of history where it rightly belongs.” The group also expressed hope that the next set of National Assembly members would take the necessary legislative action to establish June 12 as the National Democracy Day. The group further accused the PDP of running the affairs of the country, up-ended normalcy and adopting irregularities as the norm, during the 16 years of its reign, hence its inability to understand good governance under the President Buhari administration. “We are not surprised to read the statement from the PDP throwing tantrums and accusing the All Progressives Congress (APC) of everything possible and for anything happening in the country; the statements smack of the party’s inability to see and appreciate good governance and strong institutions. “For instance, the investigation by the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) of Senate President, Bukola Saraki is a simple case of an institution doing its work. If Saraki, a member of the PDP, has a case to answer, let him do so. An innocent man with no skeletons in his cupboard has nothing to fear. “Nigeria has institutions with the mandate of investigating fraud and financial malfeasances. If they find a person to be a suspect in the breach of any of our laws in this regard, they would act accordingly, investigate and prosecute where necessary. “It is unfortunate that the PDP is not used to seeing institutions working and is consequently confused by the sight of them working without being teleguided. “President Buhari respects institutions and does not interfere with their work. He believes that institutions must be allowed to do their work and not be meddled with,” the group said.