Peter Fowoyo, Lagos Further hearing in a suit brought by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) against the immediate past Governor of Ekiti state, Ayodele Fayose over an alleged N6.9 billion fraud was on Friday adjourned to May 14 by a Federal High Court, Ikoyi, Lagos as a prosecution witness, Adewale Aladegbola Clement suddenly turned hostile during yesterday’s proceedings. Adewale, a driver in a new generation bank in Ado-Ekiti became hostile during cross examination after he was accused of giving oral evidence that is at variance with his written statement. Prosecuting counsel, Rotimi Jacobs (SAN) had to plead with Justice Mojisola  Olatoregun to adjourn further hearing to enable the prosecution regularize the testimony of its witness. Justice Olatoregun reluctantly conceded to adjourn the matter to the displeasure of the defence counsel, Ola Olanipekun (SAN) and Olalekan Ojo (SAN), who had vehemently opposed the prosecution’s application for adjournment on grounds of the hostile attitude of the prosecution witness. Earlier, another witness from the Central Bank of Nigeria  (CBN), Aliyu Mohammed Mukadas, a senior manager and ex-head payment section had told the court that on June 15, 2014, N200 million was paid into account of Silva Macmera through Diamond Bank account managed by the CBN. He said the money was co-authorized by  the National Security Adviser (NSA),  Sambo Dasuki and a director in the NSA, S. A. Salisu, who were the signatories to the account of the NSA. According to the witness,  on June 15, 2014 another N2 billion was paid into the account of Silva Macmera, showing a computer print-out which he said was an impress account managed by the secretary to the government of the federation and the office of the national security adviser. He testified that the payment was also authorized by Dasuki before the payment was effected. Fayose was arraigned by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission in October 22, 2018, alongside a company Spotless Investment Limited on an 11 –count charge of money laundering. He had pleaded not guilty to the charges and the court had granted him bail in the sum of N50 million with one surety in like sum. According to the charge, on June 17, 2014, Fayose and Agbele were said to have taken possession of N1.2 billion, for purposes of funding his governorship election campaign in Ekiti satte, which sum they reasonably ought to have known formed part of crime proceeds.