Nosa Akenzua, Asaba The leadership of the legislative arm of Oshimili South Local Government Council in Delta state has impeached its legislative leader, Emeka Nwosa and elected Michael Obrota as the new leader. In a communique signed by nine councilors a copy of which was made available to journalists, stated that “we the undersigned councilors representing Oshimili South Local Government Area do hereby pass vote of no confidence on the leader of the legislative arm, Peter Emeka Nwosa. “This is sequel to his unabating acts of financial recklessness, high handedness and gross misconduct and consequently, we have removed him as the leader of the legislative House.” But, in a swift reaction, the impeached leader, Nwosa described his impeachment as a ruse, illegal and unconstitutional, adding that he still remains the leader of the legislative arm of the council. Speaking further, he said he had written a petition to the state House of Assembly through the public accounts committee and appealed to the state government to intervene to avoid an escalation of the leadership crisis. However, the Council Chairman, Uche Osadebe, while confirming the impeachment of Nwosa to journalists in Asaba, distanced himself from the crisis rocking the legislative arm of the council, adding that he knows nothing about the crisis among the councilors. While urging the councillors to avail themselves of his open door policy, Osadebe stressed that as a human being, he is bound to make mistakes and expressed passion in leaving a lasting legacy that will endure and foster development at the council. Meanwhile, in a related development, staff of the council have rejected the appointment of the council’s Head of Personnel Management, Philip Agbeyeke, alleging that he was corrupt and disobedient. Okolo Victor, who spoke on behalf of the protesting council workers to journalists, said that Agbeyeke’s return to the council will spell doom for workers because of his alleged corrupt practices and administrative mismanagement. But, Agbeyeke when contacted described the allegations as untrue and frivolous, adding that the protesting workers demanding his removal were sponsored.