Akam James, Yenagoa A former corps member from Edo state, Mr. Aimuan Endurance, has sent a protest letter to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, over his alleged exclusion from the recent federal government’s list to deserving corps members who excelled during service in their state of primary assignments. President Muhammadu Buhari had last Friday presented awards to 168 ex-corps members at the combined 2015/2016/2017 President’s NYSC Honors Award held at the State House Banquet Hall, Abuja. President Buhari, who was represented by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, also announced automatic employment to the awardees into the federal civil service and scholarships up to doctorate level in any Nigerian universities. But, Mr. Aimuan Endurance, who graduated from the Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, Edo state and bagged the Bayelsa state best corps member award for initiating and completing 16 community development projects during his mandatory one -year service between 2016/2017, in the protest letter dated May 1, 2019 and addressed to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, stated that instead of being included in the list of beneficiaries, one Otto Chimenemem, who came second in Bayelsa state with six development projects received an award from the federal government. According to the letter, made available to newsmen in Yenagoa, Endurance stated that “attached is my 16 projects carried out in Bayelsa state and the letters of commendations from my host community traditional leadership, the state government, the community development committee leadership, the NYSC and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). I am the best corps member in my set and was excluded from the award list for no reason.” He said though the much publicized Bayelsa state government’s promise of automatic employment was not fulfilled without explanation from the Gov. Seriake Dickson’s administration,” I am appealing to President Muhammadu Buhari, through your office to look into my predicament and give justice and fair play a chance. I have no influence, but I believe in the administration’s integrity.”