Ukpono Ukpong, Abuja FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello has tasked the newly sworn-in area council chairmen and their deputies to imbibe the virtues of good governance and accountability in the discharge of their duties. Mallam Bello gave the charge in an address during the swearing in ceremony of the six area council chairmen and their vice chairmen. He advised the chairmen to always ensure that public funds are used for the purpose for which they are intended. “The temptations that come with occupying an elected public office are enormous, but you must not lose sight of the fact that you are accountable first to God and very importantly, to your people. “You must learn from past mistakes and build on existing successes. You should resist the temptation to discard good ideas or discontinue laudable projects because they are not your own and you want to initiate your own. You should know that when projects are not completed, it is a disservice to the people”, he said. Describing the FCT as the centre and symbol of national unity, the minister also urged the chairmen to use their position to promote the harmonious co-existence among the various segments of the Nigerian population living in their domain. Stressing that the area councils are a part of the FCT administration, Malam Bello called on the council chairmen to work with political and religious leaders as well as traditional rulers for the overall benefit of residents, and visitors to the FCT. In a vote of thanks given on behalf of the new chairmen, Adamu Abdullahi Candido of AMAC commended the minister for his support for the development recorded at the area councils. Candido who was re-elected as chairman for a second term was particularly, appreciative of the minister for the prompt release of allocation due area councils from the federation account. “This minister does not deduct a dime from our federation account allocation. We get it exactly as approved and on time. This has helped us a great deal in the work that we do for our people and we are very grateful for it,” he stated. Those sworn in include, AMAC Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu Candido, Vice Chairman, Lawrence Onuchukwu; Chairman Abaji Area Council, Abdulrahman Ajiya, Vice Chairman, Abdullahi Abubakar; Chairman Bwari Area Council, Dr. John Gabaya Shekwogaza, Vice Chairman, Aminu Gumel; Chairman Gwagwalada Area Council, Adamu Danze, Vice Chairman, Kasimu Mohammed; Chairman Kuje Area Council, Abdullahi Sabo, Vice Chairman, Shema Kwasu and Chairman Kwali Area Council, Danladi Chiya, Vice Chairman, Zubairu Jibrin.