Patrick Okohue The Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland land, Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams, has said that leadership, not religion is Nigeria’s problem, pointing out that no religion that is worth practising will appreciate the senseless killings by Boko Haram. Adams, who spoke at the National Headquarters of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (Throne of Grace), Redemption Way, Ebute Metta, Lagos, on Sunday, said religion was all about faith. He said though he was a Muslim by birth, but that he is a thorough breeding both in Christian and traditional religions. According to him, “It is sad that many people believe religion is Nigeria’s problem, but in truth, leadership, not religion is Nigeria’s problem. For instance, I am a Muslim by birth, I grew up from a Christian background and as the Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland and culture activist, I also believe in our traditional religion. “So coming to the Redeemed Christian Church of God headquarters today is a pleasure, and one needs to appreciate God for the life of the General Overseer worldwide for keeping faith with God for over 40 years, with branches in over 200 countries across the world. “ While praising the humility of the General Overseer worldwide, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, Adams said he is truly a man of God, saying every content of his sermon is about prayers. In his sermon, Pastor Adeboye, urged all Christians to strengthen their faith, saying there is always a storm in the lives of the believer. Adeboye said there are two seasons in a day, adding that there is always a night before the day. “When a day breaks, there must be a night. A day time may endure for years, as a matter of fact, in  heaven there is no night. First a night, then a day, then the night. Whenever you find yourself in the night season, talk to the lord. He will restore your life. Weeping may be long for a night, but joy Cometh in the morning. In your homes there will always be joy,” Adeboye said. The thanksgiving service came barely five days after Adams celebrated his 49th birthday anniversary in Lagos. The Aare Onakakanfo was accompanied by his wife, Ayinba Mojisola, with a retinue of convoy, including two traditional rulers, Chief Jimoh Adebayo, Baale Imedu – nla, Mowe Town, Chief  Olufemi Bolaji Thomas–Jaji, Baale of Alade/Allen community, Ikeja, Osi and Asoju Aareonakakanfo of Yorubaland, Chiefs Gani Balogun, and Yinka Oguntimehin, members of the Aare Gani Adams event planning committee and aides.