By Tunde Opalana, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has condemned what it tags the renewed harassment of the Senate President and Director General of the Atiku Presidential Campaign, Senator Bukola Saraki by the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led federal government. It went ahead to caution the government that no harm must befall Saraki or any of the party’s candidates across the state. The PDP expressed concern that the APC-led federal government is now using the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to hound the Senate President in a clear case of political witch-hunt, alerting that the fresh siege against Sen. Saraki is part of the larger plot for a renewed clamp-down on key opposition figures and perceived political opponents of the APC administration. According to the PDP, nothing else can explain the federal government’s obnoxious and distasteful resort to intimidation and evidence-fishing, just to nail Sen. Saraki at all cost, even when nothing incriminating has been found in his stewardship as Governor of Kwara state after several investigations. In a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party asserted that the federal government is hounding Sen. Saraki even after he has been prosecuted, but discharged and acquitted by the Supreme Court after the government failed to substantiate claims of false asset declaration against him. He said “the PDP holds that this renewed witch-hunt tailored against Sen. Saraki and perceived opposition leaders further confirms that the Buhari Presidency and the APC have become frenetic over the overwhelming evidence that our party will present at the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal. “Moreover, our party already has information on how certain elements in the APC have plotted to cash in on the new siege to harm key leaders of our party under certain guise. “The APC is called upon to note that Nigerians are already aware of the truth in all issues leading to this renewed harassment of the Senate President. We insist that no harm must come to Sen. Saraki or any member of his family.” The PDP cautioned the federal government to retrace its steps on this new plot against opposition leaders in the nation’s polity.