In a bid to intensify nipping of crime in the bud, the Anambra State Police Command has launched a new operation against crime in the state, code-named ‘Operation Puff Adder’. The operation, an initiative of the Acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, seeks to flush out all forms of crime and criminality in all states of the federation. Speaking at the launch held at the Okpoko Divisional Police Headquarters, Onitsha, the state Governor, Chief Willie Obiano, represented by Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Solo Chukwulobelu, reiterated government’s resolve to rid the state of criminal elements. He said the state would maintain its stellar position as the safest state in Nigeria. “Security has been top priority of this administration since inception. We have made efforts to adequately equip the police and provide necessary support to all other security agencies in the state – the Army, Navy, Airforce and Vigilance Groups. “We have declared Anambra a zero tolerant state to all forms of criminality; we have shown commitment and resolve to ensure the safety of Ndi Anambra and all who reside within the state.” Governor Obiano expressed delight at the level of cooperation among security agencies, declaring that such synergy had helped in achieving great feat in crime-fighting. According to him, the cooperation has aided arrest of a notorious and murderous criminal known as `Icanda’, whose second in command has also been arrested. The governor noted that the arrest of two key suspects in the murder of Chief Frank Igboka, late President-General of Nimo Community, was largely due to the cooperation and operational efficiency of security agencies. The Governor lauded the initiative and assured the Command of his support to all efforts at eradicating crime from the state. He emphasised that Anambra would remain hostile to criminals and warned those intending to ply their nefarious trades in the state to stay clear. In his address, the Police Commissioner, Mr. Mustapha Dan Daura, thanked the Governor for his unrelenting support to the command. He lauded the Governor’s effort at ensuring consistent synergy among security agencies in the state. Daura said the Operation Puff Adder is aimed at intensifying police operations in and around the state with an aim at ridding the state of miscreants and criminals. “When we assure peace, the law abiding residents and visitors to the state will enjoy lasting peace and safety.’ “It is significant that we have chosen to launch this Operation in the commercial city of Onitsha as the command is resolute in its drive to make the city safe for residents. “We shall extend this operation to every nook and cranny of Anambra State, so that every ‘onye Anambra’ can sleep comfortably and engage in their lawful activities in secure atmosphere. In a remark, Anambra State Chairman of the Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC), Chief Ikechukwu Ezenwankwo, eulogised the Governor and the police for the timely initiative. He, however, observed that the state had witnessed upsurge in crime recently.