…Apex bank threatens to blacklist companies, others over illegal importation …Nigeria spends $4bn on importation of textile materials—Emefiele …Says no fewer than 130 textile industries in Nigeria have died Motolani Oseni The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on Monday has said that it costs the nation above $2.2 billion to smuggling of textiles goods alone annually. The CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, made this disclosure while delivering a keynote address on Monday in Katsina, during the flag -off of the distribution of high yielding cotton seeds and other farm input to cotton farmers. Emefiele, also, noted that Nigeria currently spends about $4 billion on the importation of textile materials and ready-made clothing annually. The apex bank in a bid to encourage local textile production, revive Nigeria’s moribund cotton, and garments sector, has, however, threatened to blacklist individuals, banks and companies involved in illegal textile importation. According to him, we must reverse these trends, and in doing so, the CBN is currently gathering data about, and investigating the accounts of individuals and corporate organisations involved in smuggling and dumping textile materials into the country. “This investigation is also being extended to the 42 other items restricted from FOREX in Nigeria. “After our investigations, the names of these individuals will be publicised and will be barred from conducting any banking business with companies or their operators”, he said. The CBN governor, who opened the distribution of the seeds said the exercise will help improve cotton production in the country from about 80,000 tonnes in 2018 to over 300,000 tonnes by 2020. He explained that with a projected population of over 190 million in Nigeria, that the needs of the domestic market are huge and varied with immense prospects for growth of the domestic textile industries. He, however, said that cotton, textiles and garment sectors had been in difficulty in the past 20 years. Emefiele added that farmers and processors have had to deal with low-quality seeds and rising operation cost, weak sales due to high energy costs of running factories and poor access to finance. According to him, with the provision of seedlings to over 100,000 farmers cultivating over 200,000 hectares of farmlands, we expect production of cotton to be high. ‘’These measures will help to improve cotton production from 80,000 tons produced in 2018 to over 300,000 tones by 2020. ‘’We also believe that these steps which we are embarking on today, will not only resuscitate this vital sector but will also help to support our efforts at creating jobs for a large number of Nigerians”, he said.