No fewer than 300 vigilantes have been trained to complement security agencies in combating crimes and traffic control in Bauchi state during and beyond the Ramadan period. A philanthropist, Alhaji Bala Wunti said this at the closing ceremony of the training in Bauchi on Sunday. Alh. Wunti said with a well-structured neighbourhood watch security outfit, potential crimes would be detected early and prevented before maturing into full-blown crime. “Issues of security and safety have been a major migraine in the society in view of increasing acts of lawlessness and social disorder exemplified by invasion of some hoodlums in some communities, armed robbery and kidnapping which was brought to limelight,” he said. The philanthropist said the 300 vigilante members were drawn from various vigilante organizations for training across the state, adding that the workshop was meant to train the participants on security and civil relations. He said professionals from the police and other relevant organizations were invited to train the participants with a view to equipping them with security skills and crime management at public gatherings. Wunti disclosed that each participant was given one bag of rice, clothes and a token of N5, 000 at the end of the workshop. District Head of Bauchi metropolis, Alhaji Nuru Jumba, charged the security outfits to provide adequate security at mosques against social miscreants. “I call on all security agencies, members of Islamic Aid organizations and other vigilante groups in the state to provide adequate security during night prayers, Sallah celebrations and other activities throughout this Ramadan period,’’ Jumba said. According to him, criminals and thieves often steal vehicles parked by worshipers during such midnight prayers, rob worshippers and flee without being caught in some areas. He said the aid groups and vigilante organizations have roles to play in preventing such criminals from committing their atrocities during the ‘tahajjud’ prayers and further urged the participants to complement the efforts of security agencies in crime and traffic control on Sallah (Eid) day, saying “there are not less than seven Eid mosques in the state capital where thousands of Muslims observe prayers.”