A political associate of the former governor of Ondo State, Dr Olusegun  Mimiko, Chief  Emmanuel Onileowo, has berated security agencies for failing to bring to justice those whom he alleged destroyed his once thriving Oremeji Aluminum and Steel  industry during a political upheaval. In a one page affidavit No RNOO77183 deposed to at the High Court Registry at Ondo, and made available to the press, the embattled Chief who lives on Ojojo Street, off Akinjagunla Street, Ondo, informed that he is a long standing family friend of Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, the former two time governor of Ondo State. He noted that as expected, he had thrown his weight and resources behind his friend, Mimiko throughout his tenure as governor of the state. He averred that unknown to him; certain elements had seen his support for his friend and viewed it as a mortal sin for which he is now paying, adding that he has suffered collateral damage to his personal properties including the emotional and mental torture that he is still contending with. Trouble, he said started when his friend on completion of the mandatory two term, failed in his bid to make his candidate emerge as the next governor. Narrating further, Chief Onileowo said he and his fellow sympathisers for the cause of the outgoing governor, and their family members were viciously attacked and their business interests destroyed by those he alleged are members of the opposition. He averred that between the 7th and 17th September, 2017, he was physically assaulted by some suspected political thugs, street urchins and miscreant and that by the time they left, his business interest were vandalised forcing him to close company. He further informed that as a result of the beating he received from the rampaging political thugs and street urchins, he was admitted at the State Specialist Hospital Ondo for close to five months. Chief Onileowo noted that as a result of the medical bills he incurred during his long stay at the Hospital, he was not able to raise the resources that would inject life into his Oremeji Aluminum and Steel Works again more so as the damage to machines and other working materials were enormous. He said while he was still ruminating on how to source funds to revive his business, hell was again let loose as the hoodlums came back on the 3rd of October 2017,  and by the time they left this time, it was the ruins of what was once his source of livelihood that he was bequeathed with. According to him, as a result of the unfortunate incident, which he noted has continued despite his efforts to curb it, he can no longer provide some basic needs for members of his family while some of his children have been forced out of school as he could no longer afford their educational expenses, appealing to security agencies to do all they can to get to the root of the matter so that he can get his life back.