Val Okara, Owerri Imo State Governor-elect, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, has reiterated his commitment to ensuring peace and harmony in the state. Ihedioha gave the assurance during a courtesy visit of the Transition Committee to Governor Rochas Okorocha at the Executive Chamber, Government House, Owerri, on Monday. Chris Okewulonu, who led his team on the visit, also enjoined both committee members to interface without any rancour or bitterness. He stated that the essence of the committee is to ensure smooth and successful handover of power in the state on May 29, adding that, the entire people of the state expect nothing but positive results from them. He said: “In the course of our meeting, certain issues were looked at which are germane to us. These issues proved the fact that this opportunity should be used to bring about harmony and peace in Imo State.” “And we took that decision against the backdrop of what has happened in the past. If you look at the recent history of this state, you will acknowledge the fact that probably apart from the year 1999 and the year 2007, other transitions in this state have always been conflated. “And we felt that this opportunity given to us, we should be able to change the narrative, we should be able to use it to make Imo to be greater than it is today. We want to use this opportunity to make sure that there is peace, there is harmony in Imo State. “So one overriding consideration that dominated our mind, the committee members, in the course of our deliberations is that the peace and development of Imo State is the most important thing for all of us. Moving forward, the overall and overriding interest of Imo people will continue to play in our minds.” While addressing the committee, Governor Okorocha appreciated the caliber of personalities that made up the Governor-elect’s Transition Committee, stressing that he has no doubt that they would deliver expectedly for the overall interest and good of the state. He also promised to provide a friendly and healthy atmosphere for the committee to operate and function while stating that his desire is to see the incoming governor succeed. The Governor-elect’s team was thereafter taken round on a facility tour within the Government House. All the 31-member team of the Governor-elect and the 21-member team of the State Government were present.