Isaac Oguntoye Son of popular woman celebrity, Hajia Bola Muinat Shagaya, Hon. Sheriff Sherriff Shagaya who is the Chairman, Salman Shagaya Foundation has described the insinuations in some quarters alleging  that he established  the  Foundation in order  to gain political advantages as  false and untrue. Shagaya, in a statement made available through  Mr. Ibraheem Abdullateef  rubbished the rumours and  averred that the passion and  the zeal to give back to the society and ease things for the  less-privileged  rather propelled  his various humanitarian gestures. Noting that he had been running the Foundation since 2015, Shagaya added that he  has also carried out numerous humanitarian projects through the initiative, which include scholarship scheme for the indigent students, healthcare sponsorship, financial aids and the  quarterly disbursement of N10,000 business grants to deserving petty traders. ‘What could have  been  the motive for peddling such falsehood when it was clear to all that I didn’t bid  for any political office in the just concluded 2019 general elections? he asked. The philanthropist further  added that he had always shown passion and the  zeal to serve humanity even before establishing the  Foundation in 2015, noting  that the Foundation had never attached importance to the political affiliation of the beneficiaries of the numerous empowerment programmes  cognizant that  politics has no place in its operations. ‘I am, therefore, surprised that some of our people are having the wrong impression that philanthropy is politics-infused.   It shouldn’t be so. There should be a clear-cut difference between the two. There should be no reason why we should reduce philanthropy to an extension of political struggle. There is no better act of patriotism than helping the less-privileged. When you reach  out to them with love and care, you are helping the government too. I see philanthropy as my little contribution to bettering our society’ he stated. Shagaya, who was the  PDP  House of Representatives candidate in the  2015  National Assembly election  also implored the beneficiaries of the various empowerment schemes of the Foundation  to make judicious use of the funds made available to them, he  equally enjoined all and sundry to promote  peace, unity and progress of the country at all times.