Patrick Okohue The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye will on May 10, 2019 inaugurate the Plateau state Specialist Hospital Intensive Care Unit. The hospital project which is part of a series of ultra-modern health projects, being built and donated by His Love Foundation will be an addition to other such donations earlier made by the organization across several states of the country. Making the revelation at a media meet in Lagos, the Special Assistant to the General Overseer (Christian Social Responsibility) of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Idowu Iluyomade said the intervention in the health sector which is part of what the church is doing in meeting the needs of the less privileged in the society and also a way of trying to lessen the burden on persons with health challenges. He said besides the intensive care unit of the Plateau state Specialist Hospital, the foundation which collaborates with over 43, 318 partner centres in various locations all over Nigeria with operational presence in 197 nations of the world, has also intervened in medical mission outreach, adding that it conducts medical outreaches twice a year for thousands of people. He added that “we also operate free delivery maternity centres at our partner locations across the country and we provide medical care at affordable prices. We have specialization in dentistry and ophthalmology. In partnership with medical institutions abroad, we have conducted nine successful kidney transplants.” Iluyomade said the foundation has also refurbished and equipped the Kirikiri Maximum Prison Referral Hospital to provide decent medical facilities for the inmates. These he said are besides the Healing Stripes Cancer Screening and Diagnostics Centre, which has so far screened over 100, 761 people at subsided rates and the Healing Stripes Dialysis Centre, which has about 9, 505 completed sessions at subsided cost. According to him, the intervention in the health sector which also follows in the pattern of intervention in other areas like feeding, where over 200, 000 meals are served at its daily feeding centres f across the country and in many nations of the world besides intervention in the education sector.