By John Ndu, Awka … Gives certificate of commendation to ABS boss Anambra State Governo, Chief Willie Obiano, has presented a Certificate of Recognition to the newly elected traditional ruler of Ihiala, HRH Igwe Thomas Obidiegwu, (Oluoha XVII & the Clan Head of Ihiala Kingdom). The presentation which took place at the Governor’s Lodge, Amawbia, attracted various traditional rulers in the state. They are, HRH Dr. Nnaemeka Achebe of Onitsha, HRH Igwe Engr. S.I. Okafor of Okpuno, HRH Igwe Anukwu of Mbaukwu, HRH Igwe Rowland Odegbo of Nteje, HRH Igwe Peter Uyanwa of Ukwulu, HRH Igwe Emmanuel Nnabuife of Iseke, HRH Igwe Chukwuemeka Ilouno of Ifitedunu. Presenting the certificate, Governor Obiano advised Igwe Obidiegwe to see his traditional stool as a veritable opportunity to ensure peaceful existence among the people of his community. Gov Obiano urged the traditional ruler to set up a special committee that would checkmate the activities of the youths, to curtail crime and criminality. In his speech, the Commissioner for Local government and Chieftaincy Matter, Mr. Greg Obi, stated it was a continuation of Governor Obiano’s excellent leadership style. He explained that the community has been torn apart due to rulership crises since the demise of their late king two years ago, prompting Anambra State Government to set up a panel to look into the matter and make recommendations on the way forward in line with the customs and traditions of the people. The traditional ruler of Onitsha, Igwe Nnaemeka Achebe, in an admonition, stressed the need for people of the community to rally round the king to enable him succeed. Responding, the new king, Igwe Obidiegwu assured that he will lead his people with the fear of God. Also, Governor Willie Obiano has presented a Certificate of Commendation to the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Anambra State Broadcasting Service (ABS), Nze Uche Nworah, for his dedication and commitment in transforming the station. The Certificate tagged “Certificate of Commendation for Dedication and Sterling Performance” was awarded to him at the weekend at the Exco Chamber, Government House, Awka. Presenting the award, Governor Obiano noted that Nze Uche Nworah had justified the huge capital the state government had invested in the station. The Governor stated that his administration would continue to provide adequate facilities to further advance the station. He disclosed that he had determined to launch the station on the DSTV platform as well as 24 hours broadcasting, calling on the staff to continue to give him the needed support. Chief Nworah, who appreciated the Governor and members of the State Executive council, pledged to justify the confidence reposed on him. He also appreciated his immediate family including his wife and children, Staff and management of the State broadcast medium, saying that their sacrifices added to bringing him to the present pedestal.