Henry Omunu, Abuja The campaign council of Leader, House of Representatives, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila, on Tuesday, boasted that they have the numbers to install their candidate as speaker of the 9th House on June 10. Director General of the Gbajabiamila Campaign, Rep. Abdulmumin Jibrin, who disclosed this in Abuja, at a briefing, stated further that the written endorsement gotten from old and incoming House members were enough to install Gbajabiamila and Rep. Mohammed Wase as speaker and deputy speaker respectively. Rep. Jibrin said the campaign council has embarked on extensive consultations with returning and new members across party lines, and as such the council was confident of victory in the election of presiding officers for the 9th House. “At this moment, we have the numbers to win the election on June 10. In fact, if not for anything, l would have our campaign council members to go to sleep because we have the numbers. “We have arrived at a very comfortable number to win the election using all scientific parameters. “I can tell you that we have obtained written commitments from members, including those from the opposition endorsing the joint ticket and we are sure more members will join the train,” he added. Moreover, the campaign director-general confirmed that Gbajabiamila’s campaign council has reached out to leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) within and outside the National Assembly, including past speakers, former presiding officers and lobbying them to support their cause. “Also, we are lobbying Dogara because we realise the value he can bring on board and opening up negotiations with him to reach an understanding to support our mission. “We are also reaching out to other contenders for the post of speaker. The approach of our campaign is to reach out to everyone and none of them has openly come out to say that they’re against the position of the party in the choice of Gbajabiamila, but that the party should also listen to them,” Jibrin added.