…Tasks journalists on adherence to ethics Mathew Dadiya, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has assuring the Nigerian media that his administration would guarantee press freedom at all times, and is committed to the highest levels of transparency. The President asserted that his government only require that the freedom be used responsibly, and for lofty ideals of national unity and development. Buhari, in a message on Thursday by his Special Adviser, Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, to herald the World Press Freedom Day, commended the Nigerian media for their doggedness. President Buhari affirmed that government would continue to ensure that the media was not muzzled in any way, since democracy and freedom of expression were kindred spirits. He salutes journalists round the country as they join their professional colleagues round the globe to mark World Press Freedom Day. World Press Freedom Day, is observed every May 3 to celebrate fundamental principles of press freedom, evaluate press freedom round the world, defend media from attacks on their independence, and pay tribute to journalists who have lost their lives in the exercise of their profession. The President urges Nigerian journalists to use the day to appraise and recommit themselves to the ethics that guide their noble profession. “Without adherence to ethics, professions turn awry, and become part of national malaise, rather than solutions. That is why journalists must constantly recommit to the canons of fairness, accuracy, objectivity, balance, and other ideals that guide their profession,” President Buhari says, adding:  “On this occasion of World Press Freedom Day, I urge you to rededicate yourselves to the role of being watchdogs of society, while being mindful of the cohesion and equilibrium of that same society. There are always those who want to use the media to emphasize our fault lines as a people, dwell on primordial sentiments, and keep the country perpetually on the same spot. Be wary of such.” President Buhari who noted that the theme of this year’s celebration: “Media for Democracy: Journalism and Elections in Times of Disinformation,” said it’s quite germane for Nigeria, having recently concluded our general elections, and urges the media to reflect on the deleterious effect of fake news, misinformation and disinformation before, during and after the polls. Meanwhile the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Abuja Chapter, enjoined journalists to adhere to professionalism and engage in fact checking before publishing any story. Chairman of the Council, Emmanuel Ogbeche, expressed optimism that in a decade the Nigeria media will attend absolute press freedom. Ogbeche said this on Thursday during the celebration of the World Press Freedom Day in Abuja. He said that the Nigerian media has a social contract with the Nigerian people and must do all within their role to uphold the truth at all times. One of the panelists at the event MR Jide Ojo said that Nigeria still remained one of the most vibrant press Freedom in the world, saying that there can never be absolute press freedom. Another panelist, said that government has a key role at ensuring press freedom without “fake news” but noted that “we are in a digital age which requires the need for freedom, human rights and the need to express oneself without restriction. Chido Onumah, Coordinator, African Centre for Media and Information Literacy, said that the media in Nigeria don’t seem to be asking the right questions urging them to up their games and do what they are expected to do.