By Henry Omunu, Abuja House of Representatives Speaker, Yakubu Dogara, has declared that the political leadership model practiced in Nigeria is that which favours godfathers and protects their interests to the detriment of the citizens and national interest. Speaking at a conference organized by the #NotTooYoungToRun movement for young lawmakers at both the national and state levels, he added that qualified youth who have the capacity to serve with distinction are abundant in Nigeria, asserting that even though they have been kept on the sidelines since 1999, they must be prepared to assert themselves in order to bring comfort to broken Nigerians. Dogara encouraged the young lawmakers to stand up against the bondage of godfatherism if they are determined to make a difference in the political space for the good of all Nigerians. He urged them to remember that they carry the burden and the promises of a “generation that must not fail, that must be on the wings of discipline that produces character, without which they cannot be men and women of influence and in that case, without influence, they cannot change anything. “Character means that you cannot be separated from your word; a quality no godfather in history has ever possessed. Character is not only that your word is your bond, but that you are actually what you pretend to be. “While godfathers always pretend to be something other than who they really are, leaders do not. Imagine where we will be as a nation if all these godfathers that litter the political landscape become what or who they pretend to be. “Unfortunately, the leadership model we have practiced so far is the kind of leadership that produces sycophants who are expected to serve their political godfathers and not the people. “Our so called leaders have mastered the art of political witchcraft so much so that if you are independent minded, you are automatically disqualified and if for any reason you are picked, then you have to surrender your soul for them to eat in small bites until you become their worshipper. “In the midst of this pandemic sycophancy, our so called godfathers expect us to fit in and not to stand up to be counted or make a difference. We need leaders who will lead us to build a nation and serve others, not godfathers who demand that we worship and serve them rather than serve the people.” Citing happenings at the National Assembly to further buttress his point, the speaker pointed out that the National Assembly has often charted its leadership course because lawmakers are well aware that external interests will never find the convergence to legislate for the people or hold the executive to account. He insisted that it is in this regard that as fresh legislators, such as the youth gathered at the event are, they need to demonstrate their determination to define the kind of leadership that will be answerable to them, the representatives of the people and the people they represent, and not to some godfathers who live only for themselves. The speaker said they should be reminded that true greatness only comes while serving others and not when serving themselves or godfathers, as Nigerian electorate have now become more sophisticated and increasingly aware of the power of the ballot and are now more likely to choose to reward stewardship according to the services rendered by their representatives than what obtained in the past.