Isaac Job, Uyo Authorities of the Akwa Ibom state University have expressed their condolences to the family of a student, late Emem Samuel Jimmy, who was shot dead last weekend by a notorious gang of phone snatchers along Ikot Okoro Road, near Obio Akpa campus of the university. Until the fatal shooting, the victim was a 200 level student of the political science department of the institution. He was shot dead on Wilson Idiong Street in Obio Akpa close to the university sub -campus in Oruk Anam council area of the state. Eyewitnesses said that fracas ensued between the phone snatchers and the late student when the deceased attempted to resist gunmen from snatching his phone before he was shot dead. In a statement signed by the Head, Directorate of Information, Public Relations and Protocol of the University, Mr. Akaninyene Ibanga, said the victim was rushed to hospital immediately for treatment as the institution took over the payment of his medical bills in an attempt to save the life of the deceased, but regrettably, he died in the process of receiving medical attention. “Late Emem was shot between the hours of 8.30 – 9pm at Wilson Idiong Street, off Ikot Okoro Road, Obioakpa, Oruk Anam Local Government Area in an attempt to resist unknown gunmen from snatching his phone and was rushed immediately to the hospital for treatment which the university management took over the hospital bills just to save his life, but on Saturday, late Emem could not survive the struggle with death, so he finally passed on at about 12.30pm. “The vice-chancellor hereby condoles with members of the family of the deceased. He also appeals to all members of the university community to remain calm and continue with their normal businesses/duties while speedy effort is being made by the relevant law enforcement agencies to fetch out the perpetrators of this heinous act,” the university stated. The statement warned criminal elements to desist from any form of criminality within and outside the university community, saying that the university community was not a safe haven for criminals, including cultists and other related social vices. In his reaction the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Eno Ibanga assured members of the university community of their safety in face of prevailing security challenges recently experienced in university campuses.