By  Patrick Okohue A member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Adebisi Yusuff has enjoined political officers holders to identify with the people, noting that this would encourage the electorates to come out en masse to participate in electoral processes. Yusuff, who represents Alimisho Constituency I in the State Assembly recently won his third term return ticket to represent the constituency. A feat which he said was unprecedented, but added that he has always tried his best to be the voice of his people since 2007 when he first got to the Assembly to date. While reacting to the advice by the Lagos State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Mr Sam Olumekun that party leaders should intensify efforts in mobilising the electorate and their members to actively participate in elections, Yusuff explained that such would be achieved by identifying with the people and providing dividends of democracy to the people. It will be recalled that Olumekun had on Friday 5th April, during the presentation of certificates of return to the State lawmakers-elect at the Lagos INEC office, Yaba lamented the low turnout of voters during last general election in the state. Yusuff said, “It is a fact and good advice from the Resident Electoral Commissioner. I advise the politicians that we should be alive in our constituencies by gearing up our people and doing activities that will encourage them to come out during elections. “If you have annihilated the people and abandoned those who gave you power, in subsequent elections, they won’t have interest in coming out. I enjoin political office holders and appointed officers that they should identity with the people that matter,” the lawmaker said. He however expressed delight with his victory at the election, saying “it’s not an easy task, when you consider the cosmopolitan nature of my constituency. In terms of population, we are the largest and most politically structured, Alimosho is no one on the list. As a result, there is competitive struggle to occupy the offices. “Why I love the constituency is that they don’t sacrifice merit for mediocrity. They monitor you and based on your performance, they return you to the positions. This is the first time somebody will be representing Alimisho constituency for three consecutive terms and I thank God for that,” Yusuff added. Hon. Bisi Yusuff also commended former governor of Osun State, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, Alimosho residents, party stakeholders and his family for standing by him to ensure that he won the third term election.