By Adewale Momoh, Akure The Ondo state National Assembly and state House of Assembly Election Petitions Tribunal has cautioned parties against frivolous applications and unnecessary tactics that will delay the proceedings of the tribunal. Justice Nuhu Adi, who is the chairman of the 3-member tribunal gave the stern warning at its inaugural sitting in Akure, the Ondo state capital. The tribunal chairman emphasized that the panel only had 180 days under the Electoral Act to determine the seven petitions before it, adding that the tribunal will also be sitting on public holidays in order to fast track the conclusion of its assignment. Justice Adi however, assured that the tribunal’s members would deploy high level of professionalism, legal skills and transparency to ensure that both petitioners and respondents receive justice. “We solicit the maximum cooperation of all that are involved in this exercise, particularly the legal representatives of the parties in all the petitions. The hearing of the petitions shall be on a day to day basis, including public holidays in order to meet up with 180 -day period provided for the hearing and determination of each petition. “The parties are hereby enjoined to be ready to work within the mandatory period stipulated by the law. The panel shall remain in absolute and firm control of the court until the exercise is over. “On this note, the tribunal shall not condone or allow frivolous applications calculated to draw back the proceedings. Unnecessary applications for adjournment of a matter would not be entertained as undue delay would portray the tribunal as unserious. “Any ploy by any counsel to waste the precious time of the tribunal by engaging in asking irrelevant questions during cross-examination of witnesses shall not be tolerated. “We assure you that in the quest to get the truth of the matter before us, we shall exercise our judicial function in utmost good faith and we shall work with an open mind without any form of bias. We also pledge not to lend ourselves to any form of influence or inducement,” the justice stated. Meanwhile, the state Attorney General, Koka Olawoye (SAN), who spoke on behalf of other lawyers at the tribunal assured members of the tribunal of maximum cooperation.