By Benjamin Omoike, Lagos Lagos state Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode on Tuesday commissioned the Bariga Waterfront Jetty, five transport ferries and the Ilaje Road, saying that the development was a testament to the fact that the state’s integrated transport management system was firmly on track. Gov. Ambode, who spoke at the unveiling of the projects, said the development would greatly lessen pressure on road transportation, reduce travel time as well as enhance connectivity within the state. “With these projects, our state is firmly on track with our goal of establishing an integrated transport management system. These facilities will continue to impact positively on the lives of Lagosians as we strive to address traffic gridlock, reduce travel time, improve road connectivity and abate flooding,” the governor said. He said like other projects delivered by his administration, the projects were inspired to open up the Bariga community for more commercial activities and make residents feel the impact of government, recalling that his administration since inception set out on a mission to make every community economically viable and livable. “The thinking behind these projects is inclusion; an inclusion where every resident of our state has a say, feels the impact of government in their lives and is given the opportunity to realize their dreams. “When we assumed office four years ago, we set out on a mission to make every community economically livable. This has been the guiding principle behind spreading our different projects across the state,” he said. Explaining how the jetty and Ilaje Road came about, Gov. Ambode said the projects were basically in response to the security challenges of the late 2015 as investigations then revealed that the cultists terrorizing the people and threatening the peace of the state were getting funds from sand dredging activities in the area, adding that the projects were a clear example of urban regeneration inspired by creating solution to challenges. The governor said that the initial plan was to upgrade the roads in the community, but that a proper assessment of the community revealed a greater need to improve the lives of the people and make Bariga a transport hub that would connect the community to other parts of the state through water transportation.