By Saka Bolaji – Minna A World Bank $140 million grant to the country have been drawn by 29 states, including the Federal Capital Territory it has been revealed. However, to benefit from the programme each participating state would determine the “poorest of the poor communities” based on certain indices provided by the World Bank. Among the indices are the level of infrastructure in the communities, including number of educational institutions, health facilities, roads and number of pupils enrolled in schools. Similarly, benefiting states are to counter fund the programmes with N50 million every year. General Manager of the Niger state Community and Social Development Agency, Malam Ahmed Usman disclosed this while briefing newsmen in Minna on the first phase of the programme ending next year. He disclosed that the World Bank has given assurances that the scheme would be extended for another five years “because of its positive impact on the participating communities and its ability to reduce poverty among the people.” Usman said the Niger state government has the potential to draw N1.2 billion, but that the government had so far collected N778 million in addition to counter funding the project with N150 million in the last three years. The general manager disclosed that 120 micro -projects have been executed in 20 local governments participating in the scheme, pointing out that some of the projects executed, include sinking of boreholes, provision of electricity, construction of schools and empowerment of women and building the capacities of junior and senior staff of local governments. He however, said execution of 48 micro- projects approved by the agency for the first quarter of the year have not started, but gave assurances that the projects would start before the end of the year. On the poverty situation in the state, Malam Usman said Agwara and Rijau were identified as the “poorest local governments in the state,” saying that the richest local governments “are the urban local governments of Chanchaga, Bida, Kontagora, Lapai and Suleja.” The general manager said the major challenge the agency is facing is “how to meet the huge number of requests from communities,” saying that “as at today, we have more than 1, 000 requests, but we are treating them on first come first served basis.”