Our reporter Several communities in Zamfara state pay bandits millions of Naira daily in order to avoid been attacked or their people kidnapped. The vice-Chairman of Shinkafi Local Government Area of the state Alhaji Sani Galadima, disclosed this Monday while reporting that bandits killed six members of the Civilian Joint Task Force in the area. He spoke when he received the Minister of Interior, Gen. Abdurrahman Dambazau, who was in the state to assess the security threat being posed by banditry and listen to the challenges facing the people. When he visited the Emir of Bungudu, Alhaji Hassan Attahiru, the minister was also told by the Emir that life has become very difficult as local no longer go to farm for fear of attack. According to the News Agency of Nigeria Galadima after highlighting the challenges being faced by the people of his local government area as a result of banditry said every day “we pay ransom to bandits.” “Six members of the Civilian JTF were attacked and killed on Sunday by the bandits after receiving their pay from Shinkafi town and were on their way back to their villages. Even yesterday (Sunday), these bandits sent a letter to the district head of Shinkafi town (saying) that they were coming to attack the town. “This ugly situation is very disheartening; every day we pay millions of naira in ransom to these bandits. We really need government’s urgent support to end this problem. “Our women also suffer a lot (because) the bandits attack communities and abduct ladies from their parents’ homes. People no longer sleep with their two eyes closed in the night in Shinkafi LGA. “We want the government to resolve the issue of shortage of troops and police. We only have 19 soldiers in this town. “We need urgent intervention from the government; we are not satisfied with the efforts and strategies of the security agencies. “We all know the camps where these bandits stay; even the security men are aware of these camps; our major concern is that security personnel are not getting to these bandits. We are hoping that with this visit, this problem will come to an end,” he said. On his side, the minister said “This is not my first visit to Zamfara; we started this process to ensure lasting solutions to these problems, not only in Zamfara State. “President Buhari asked me to visit Shinkafi and Anka emirates in Zamfara to carry out the assessment and discuss these issues. The President also expresses his condolence over loss of lives and destruction of properties as a result of insecurity. “It is the responsibility of government to ensure lives and properties are secure. That is why we must do everything possible to ensure the end of this situation,” the minister said. When he visited Anka, and Chairman of Zamfara State Council of Chiefs, Alhaji Attahiru Ahmad, told the minister that no fewer than 13,000 people had fled villages in his domain because of attacks by bandits. The traditional rule said the Federal Government must act fast to enable the people to farm this season. He stated, “We are happy that the Minister of Interior has come here to see us and to condole with us over the tragedy we are experiencing. Now that you are here, our hope of getting rid of these criminals has been rekindled. “We have witnessed a lot of killings and abductions of our people. As I am talking to you now, we have more than 13,000 people who have left their villages and relocated here (to Anka town). There are many others at different towns and villages. Some of them have even left the state. “So, the issue of farming is not possible because the people have deserted their villages and unless Federal Government does something urgent and in time, many people would not have the chance to farm,” he said.