By Our Reporter Former Special Adviser on Niger Delta Affairs to former President Goodluck Jonathan, Dr. Kingsley Kuku has debunked stories making the rounds on some social media platforms that he was arrested in the United States. Kuku, who also served as chairman of the Presidential Amnesty Programme said the story of his purported arrest was mere rumours and the figment of the imagination of both those that originated it as well as others circulating the material. He therefore, advised friends, well-wishers, business and political associates to ignore both the story and those peddling it. A statement signed by his media assistant, Yemi Akintomide and made available to the press, stated that “in the last 48 hours, the social media has been awash with an evil story of the arrest of Dr. Kingsley Kuku. “It was orchestrated by a blogger whose main stock in trade is blackmail and extortion of politicians and top public servants. His platform is not credible and Therefore, does not require us wasting time on him. “As a matter of fact, there are so many such bloggers in the social media space who daily, churn out fake and unsubstantiated stories. We urge the public to disregard the story as it is completely false.” Kuku cautioned users of social media, especially bloggers to desist from using their platforms to peddle rumours and fabricated lies capable of tarnishing the hard earned image of fellow citizens, adding that he would not hesitate to seek redress against such deliberate mudsling using all known legal instruments. “We are using this medium to advise all those who wish to indulge in this brand of irresponsible journalism to desist from it. Those who wish to practice journalism should do so in line with ethical standards. “This descent into outright falsehood with the intention to blackmail and extort is not only ridiculous, but very pedestrian. We shall not hesitate to take legal action against such persons and their platforms, if only to make them comply with minimum standards prescribed by law and the journalism profession. “It would be recalled that Dr. Kingsley Kuku served Nigeria meritoriously for four years. Kuku and his competent team complemented our security infrastructure significantly in the Niger Delta and helped to raise Nigeria’s revenue base as well as saved the world trillions of dollars. “He deserves commendation, not blackmail or political persecution. Once again, we urge all our friends at home and in the Diaspora to disregard the news of Kuku’s arrest because it is not true, but rather a political hatchet man’s job,” the statement added.