By Ahmad Sorondinki, Kano The governor of Kano State, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has said that the creation of four new Emirates has come to stay just as the four newly oppointed Emirs thanked Ganduje of creating the four new additional Emirates.attended a symbolic presentation of notification of their appointment letters. Speaking at a ceremony organized over the weekend for the four newly appointed emirs to express appreciation to the governor, held at Sani Abacha Indoor Stadium  Ganduje said the creation would go along way in steming the tide of insecurity and other social vices in the state. He said he received information that some people wanted to organize a protest but despite that,  the law had come to stay forever and ever. According to him,  any violent reaction gainst the new law would not augur well in the state, calling on the residents to exercise restraint to allow peace and tranquility to  reign. The governor also stressed that the idea behind the breakup of the central emirate was to reduce the burden of development agenda of the state to the other four emirate councils for effective delivery. He charged the new emirs to participate actively in the area of education, security and agricultural development in the state. “these four emirate councils existed for many centuries ago. We deemed it wise to revive them in order to fast-track our development agenda. “I charge these emirs to develop interest in the education development , agriculture and security. We want to see you going house to house to ensure every child go to school. “We want to see you participating in the fight against insecurity because you are familiar with strangers that enter your town. You will know new faces that enter your towns and know how to tackle the security in your areas,” he said The governor, therefore urged all the emir’s to work harmoniously towards the development of the state. In their respective remarks, the newly appointed monarchs thanked the governor for what they called, historic appointment, restating commitment toward working in tandem to fight drug abuse, insecurity and bring about even development in the state. The appointed emirs include; Ibrahim Abubakar, the emir of Karaye, Aminu Ado-Bayero, emir of Bichi, Ibrahim Abdulkadir, emir of Gaya and Tafida Ila.