Joy Obakeye Workers have expressed hope in the Nigeria Judiciary to protect their rights to freedom of association, organisation and collective bargaining. This is on the heels of several cases in courts following industrial actions by labour unions in the country to protest alleged infractions by employers in both the public and private sector. The National President of Private Telecommunication and Communications Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PTECSSAN), Comrade Oladapo Moses, disclosed this on Friday in Lagos. Moses expressed that employers hide under the guise of a lawsuit to stop employees from associating and addressing issues relating to welfare and ethics.
 He added that the union is currently in several court cases over the sack of some elected leaders of workers in an organisation. “We have a case presently in court where an employer rushed to the National Industrial Court and the Federal High court, following the industrial action of the Union against them. “The protest was necessitated following the sack of some elected leaders of workers in the organisation. Though the company is hiding under the industrial action of the union to file a case in court, hence, preventing the organisation of the workers in the workplace. The Union has, in turn, instituted a counter case against the company for wrongful termination of the appointment of its leaders in the organisation and prevention of the workers from exercising their right to freedom of Association, right to organise and to collective bargaining. He expressed optimism that justice will prevail for the affected workers; “We are optimistic that all our prayers shall be granted by the court including payment of damages among others. “The Courts should do more to protect workers who decided to organise themselves from the intrigues of the employers which more often than not they hide under case instituted by them,” he added. Moses explained that due to alleged victimization of employees, the union has adopted the approach of inviting members on a personal relationship. He stressed that employees become suspicious of any invitation from unfamiliar sources because some employers tend to play on their intelligence.