…Kano now has 5 emirates …Arrangements in top gear to install new emirs Ahmad Sorondinki, Kano The Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, is now in deep trouble as the Kano State Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, has signed the Emir’s Appointment and Deposition Amendment Law, 2019. In a press statement signed by the Director Press, Abba Anwar and made available to The Daily Times, the Governor signed the Bill on Wednesday at the 136th State Council meeting, in the presence of the Speaker of the State House of Assembly and other Principal Officers of the House. After signing the Bill into law, Ganduje said that, “The King makers would be known very soon. So also all other processes and procedures will be completed for appointing respective Emirs, issuing them with appointment letters up to the Coronation stage.” Ganduje thanked the state Assembly for what he described as the “historic work done,” emphasising that there would now be sustained development in all aspects of life in the state. While acknowledging the role traditional institutions play in the security of the larger society, the Governor also reminded that, “In the areas of education, health and environment, traditional institutions are indeed partners in progress. With this development therefore, all hands would be on deck to take Kano to the next level.” With the new Emirate Councils in the state, the Governor said, “Traditional institutions will now go closer to the people in all nooks and crannies of the state. We are about to make history today, and in the Holy Month of Ramadan.” He explained further that, with the expansion of the Emirate Councils and importance attached to the institutions alongside preserving the cultural heritage, there was a need to bring forth the all-important institution to serve people better. According to him, all the necessary requirements needed for the immediate take-off of the new Councils would be done with dispatch. The newly created Emirate Councils are Gaya, Rano, Karaye and Bichi. Each of the five Emirates are now independent and equal to the Kano Emirate Council. Earlier, in his remarks at the official presentation of the Bill to the Governor, Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Kabiru Alasan Rurum, reminded all, of the traditional status of the 3 out of the 4 newly created Emirate Councils. He said Gaya, Karaye and Rano newly Councils were in existence before, for over One Hundred years before “Many things happened when they all ceased to exist. “We are very grateful that the hitherto existing Emirate Councils are now fully back. This will indeed be another plus to the administration of His Excellency the Governor and our Assembly for fulfilling the aspirations of our people,” Speaker said. He further hinted that, when the Bill was presented to the Assembly, many people were jubilating and that they received many encomiums from the citizens, which, he said, added value to the process. Other Bills that were signed alongside the Emirate Councils Bill into Law are Kano State Public Health Bill of 2019, Kano State Water and Sanitation Sector Reform Bill of 2019, Kano State Pension Rights for Speaker and Deputy Speaker Bill of 2019 and Kano State College of Health, Science and Technology, among others. In all, seven Bills were assented to by the governor.