…Says proactive fiscal actions required to enhance economic growth Moses Oyediran, Enugu The Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, has disclosed that after five consecutive quarters of negative growth beginning in the first quarter of 2016, a coordinated approach by the fiscal and monetary authorities supported a rebound in the nation’s economy during the second quarter of 2017. He stated this at the University of Nigeria (UNN) while delivering a lecture titled: “From Recession to Growth: The Story of Nigeria’s Recovery from the 2016 Economic Recession” at the Special Convocation of the university on Friday. The CBN governor, who was also conferred with honorary doctorate degree of the institution, said the recovery was driven largely by improved non-oil activities especially, the agriculture sector which he said expanded consistently by about 3.5 per cent to 4.3 per cent reflecting government’s efforts at diversifying the economy. “After 5 consecutive quarters of negative growth beginning in the 1st quarter of 2016, a coordinated approach by the fiscal and monetary authorities supported a rebound in the nation’s economy during the second quarter of 2017. “This was nonetheless, reinforced by the pickup in the oil sector as oil prices rallied in 2017. The gradual re-orientation of the economic structure towards the agriculture sector reflects the diversification drive of the government which was supported by the development finance initiatives of the CBN. “The recovery has been sustained for seven consecutive quarters. The pace of quarterly GDP growth has improved from .5 percent in the second quarter of 2017 to 2.38 percent in the fourth quarter of 2018,” he stated. Emefiele however noted that challenges still remain such as ensuring that the pace of GDP growth remains well ahead of our annual population growth at 3 percent, adding that this can only be achieved if we continue to support efforts aimed at improving domestic production of goods in Nigeria. He added that proactive fiscal actions, especially, infrastructure investment was required to enhance economic growth. Emefiele said that since the Anchor Borrowers Programme, the country had been able to save over $800 million, due to decline in the importation of rice. “So far, the programme has supported more than 1,059,604 small holder farmers across all the 36 states of Nigeria in cultivating 16 different commodities over 1.114 million hectares of farmland. “It has also supported the creation of over 2.5 million jobs across the agricultural value chain. “A key emphasis was placed on improving rice production, given the considerable weight importation of rice had on Nigeria’s import bill,” he said. The apex bank governor said that because the GDP growth remained slow, the CBN would give support to domestic production of goods in the country which, according to him, was the way to improve economic growth. “Addressing the constraints of farmers, SMEs and manufacturers will be critical, to drive sustainable growth of the Nigerian economy and reduce our reliance on proceeds from the sale of crude oil. The CBN governor further stated that universities have a considerable role to play in working with the private and public sector in supporting research and development of solutions that can be applied to enhance the growth of the Nigerian economy. His words: “There is need to forge partnerships between universities, research institutions, the private sector and public sector institutions. “This will aid in developing and implementing solutions that will support productivity in the agriculture and manufacturing sectors to build a sustainable productive base for the nation”. Earlier, the Vice-Chancellor of UNN, Prof. Benjamin Ozumba, called on philanthropists and alumni of the university to join hands with the Federal Government in funding the school. Ozumba said that UNN had a couple of innovative ideas which, if developed, would create jobs and add to the country’s economic development. “As a vice-chancellor, I have a first-hand experience of the consequences of the poor funding being experienced by universities in the country. “Universities all over the world receive huge periodic support from donors, philanthropists and alumni to fund their research and implement the development agenda of such universities. “I urge us all to remain committed to the task of preserving the traditions and standards, for which our university is known for,” he said. Among dignitaries who were present at the occasion were the Deputy Governors of CBN, Mr. Joseph Nnanna and Mrs. Aisha Ahmad, CBN board members and members of the Monetary Policy Committee.