Isaac Oguntoye Afrik Diary, organizers of African Model exhibition and the African Fashion and Arts Exhibition, is set to put together the biggest creativity show in the city of Lagos tagged Lagos Expo with the theme: home of creativity. The Lagos Expo 2019, scheduled to hold on the 23rd and 24th November at  Landmark Event centre, will showcase African beauty, culture and creativity globally by focusing of four areas which include: FASHION, ARTS, FOOD AND DRINKS. An estimated 100 exhibitors and 10,000 visitors are expected to storm the two days expo, that is billed to be one of the largest gathering of people from the creative industry across Africa like Ghana, Senegal, Togo and Cameroon. The project director James Adeniyi  believes the Lagos Expo 2019 will give opportunity for brands and businesses to showcase their products and work to a ready audience. James Adeniyi also says the expo will provide direct customer feedback, develop product knowledge and the chance to network with key industry players, brand influencers and guests all at a spot giving everyone the chance to buy, sell and network to build net worth. He admitted that one of the hardest things in business is customer reach and selling, hence the Lagos Expo is an opportunity to provide a platform to reach distributors and sell to customers all at a spot while using the chance to build customer data. It was also noted that exhibitors have a chance to vie for any of the four awards within the period of the Lagos Expo, which include the best fashion designer award, best artist award, best food company award and best drink company award. Guests at the venue will choose the winners during the second day of the exhibition through a transparently designed selection and winning process, he added. Exhibitors, who are the focus business owners, have an option of choosing the premium stand, the standard or the start up brand arena exhibition stand. Each exhibition category is carefully planned to meet the need of the exhibition package or offering. The Afrik Diary team also stated that they are working on brand ambassadors, stating that these will be communicated to the public through their Lagos Expo social media platforms: facebook and Instagram mainly and urged the general public to connect through the Lagos Expo handles.