A Plateau state High sitting in Barkin Ladi in Jos, on Tuesday ordered the federal government and the Department of State Services (DSS) to produce two suspects before it on May 23. Justice S.P. Gang, gave the order in a case filed by two suspects, Zakka Dung and Dalyop Bulus against the government and DSS, who are defendants in two separate cases before the Judge. They sued the federal government and joined the attorney general of the federation, the chief of defence staff, the DSS and special taskforce commander in the suits. “I hereby order that the applicants/suspects in these cases, who are being held as suspects by the respondents should be produced in court on May 23 for the hearing in the two cases,’’ Gang held. When the case came up for hearing, counsel to the suspects and applicants, Gyang Zi, told the court that since his clients were arrested by military men attached to the special taskforce at different dates no one knows their whereabouts. He alleged that the respondents refused to bring them to court. “My Lord, the matter is slated for hearing today, but unfortunately my clients are not in court since the respondents have refused to bring them to court in spite of your earlier order of April 4. “While Dalyop Bulus was arrested on November 11, 2017, without being charged in court and told his offence, Zakka Dung and Joel Sunday were arrested on January 26, 2019 and detained without also being taken to court or told their offence. “It was the suspects that filed cases against the respondents and today is the second time we are coming without seeing the suspects/applicants being brought to court nor any counsel in court to represent them till today that we have one counsel,’’ the applicants counsel lamented. Zi further pointed out that “these are fundamental rights cases that demand the respondents doing the needful as responsible institutions and individuals who know the constitution of Nigeria very well. “Although, Joel Sunday, who was arrested along with Dung, has been released on bail, Dalyop and Dung are still in their custody,’’ he disclosed. However, counsel to the Special Task Force Commander, Maj.-Gen. Augustine Chris-Chukwudi, Ms. Chomo Pwo, who announced her appearance, apologized for not being in court at the last sitting, but feigned ignorance of the whereabouts of the suspects/applicants in the matters. The presiding judge, however, ordered the respondents to unfailingly produce the applicants/suspects in court on the next adjourned date and subsequently, adjourned the case to May 23 for continuation of hearing.