…Picketing my house act of hooliganism – Minister …NLC orders members to shame Ngige, family members at airports worldwide …Schedules another protest for May 13 Mathew Dadiya & Ukpono Ukpong, Abuja The last may not have been heard of the face-off between the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Minister of Labour and Employment, Sen. Chris Ngige, as labour has vowed to ensure that the minister receives the same level of treatment his hired thugs meted on workers during the picketing of the minister’s official residence. This is even as the minister has described the picketing of his private residence as an act of hooliganism and has threatened to take legal action against the NLC. NLC President, Ayuba Wabba, while briefing journalists on Thursday in Abuja, announced that the congress at its National Central Working Committee meeting resolved hold another protest on May 13 to protest against the minister’s action of hiring thugs to assault workers. He, however, warned that the workers will come prepared this time, in case the minister tries to repeat the unfortunate situation that took place at his residence, adding that ‘no one has monopoly of violence’. “The picketing at the Minister of Labour and Employment, Sen. Chris Ngige’s house and office was lawful as it was done under public thoroughfare and also the labour allows such picketing because, he is a public officer and he’s holding public office. Even the president of countries has tolerated such picketing in such locations. “As minister of labour, he knows very well that picketing, lock-out is part of our laws, but for him to descend so low and instead for him to address the issue he resorted to the use of thugs to attack the workers, we demand an unreserved apology from him and the Federal Government. “The CWC resolves to hold Ngige and the members of his family personally responsible for the violence attack visited on Nigerian workers and we have directed all our workers particularly at the airports in Nigeria and around the world that wherever they are seen, they should also receive the same disgrace. “Workers at all our airports particularly in the diaspora where ITUC operates particularly in the 163 countries where ITUC have members, in all their airports, all their identity have already been circulated and that the same disgrace should be extended to him and all members of his family. “CWC calls for arrest and prosecution of those thugs immediately and also their sponsor which is well known. Also CWC resolved that government should come clear on what is happening because the silence is not also addressing the issue. “We will embark on a national protest on Monday, May 13 against the brutalisation of our members by Ngige and his thugs and has accordingly directed all our members and Civil Society ally for immediate mobilisation. “The CWC has also resolved that they are ready to be killed by thugs hired by Ngige but this time around we tell him that he does not have the monopoly of violence because we thought that in a civilized system, workers should be seen to respect the rule of law and rule of engagement that is why we mobilized that number of workers to symbolically passed the message of protest against the deliberate delay in the inauguration of the board of NSITF.” Wabba said. Speaking further, the NLC President stressed that the NWC demands the immediate inauguration of the board with Chief Frank Kokori as the Chairman just as the President appointed. But, the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, speaking to State House correspondents, said that the action taken by the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) by picketing his private residence was not unionism, but an act of hooliganism, adding that the trade union cannot exchange hooliganism for trade unionism. Reacting to the incident on Thursday, Ngige after meeting President Muhammadu Buhari at the Aso Villa, declared that he was traumatised by the action of labour. He said: “Picketing does not mean that you go to peoples private residence because you don’t know who occupies there. For example, in my home, my wife, my children and the children of my domestic staff and security personnel were trapped. “My neigbour, his wife and children couldn’t go out. It is obstruction; it is against the law of the country. Then putting a tanker with petrol is arson, the place can be caught on fire, the entire street could have been engulfed on fire. I don’t know what to say. “Trade unionism means you dialogue, you discuss, you talk. That is why we call it social dialogue because you must continue to talk. If you are government, you continue to talk. If you are Labour, you continue to talk with your employer and if you are employer, you continue engaging them.” “Well, I just read the dailies today and I saw that story. It is a very fortunate misleading story because the scenario that emerged yesterday (Wednesday) was that I was woken up at 5am by my wife who reported to me that the security men were having problems with some strange fellows at the gate of the house. And that some people were also on the walls of my home, that they arrived there by 4:30am. “When the security people accosted them, they discovered that it was the President of the Nigeria Labour Congress himself that came physically with two tankers; one laden with petroleum, the second was half empty. One was put at the gate of my house and the second at the gate of my neigbour’s house. “When I heard the story it was very strange. When I looked from upstairs I saw that the tankers were actually blocking the entrance to my house. I came down and asked for the chief detail who told me the whole story. And it emerged that they even had a scuffle with the president of the NLC when they were struggling for the key to the tanker. “So I went back and made some calls to the Commissioner of Police FCT, Director SSS and also the Federal Road Safety to see if they could move the vehicles. “So, I was surprised to read about thugs and people hospitalised, people beaten. I have tried to do some investigations and enquiries and from my preliminary enquiry and the reports I got, it looks like the NLC people disagreed with the people they brought to my house. “I understand that they were contracted to work till 10am which is council time, the aim being to obstruct me from going to council. I left my house at 8 o’clock, a friend picked me up and I was able to make it to council. “So, I am very, very distraught, my family is traumatised, the people in my house are traumatised, my domestic staff with families are traumatised, even my neigbour and his wife couldn’t do their business for the day. Those tankers were removed around 6pm.” Asked if he was planning to take any action, the minister said: “My neigbour said he is going to take legal action. I will also take legal action, illegal actions are actionable, nobody is above the law.”