Operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS attached to Ipakodo, Ikorodu have arrested one of the suspected killers of the two Bureau-de-Change operators whose corpses were dumped inside a septic tank in Ikorodu area of Lagos State. The suspect identified as Kenneth Ebuka, a 23 -year-old electrician was arrested on Monday, in Ilisan Remo, Ogun state, where he had gone to take cover following the arrest of his partners in crime. Confessing to the role he played in the murder of the bureau-de-change operators, the latest arrested suspect, Kenneth Ebuka, said that he witnessed when they were killed them but denied being part of the plan from the onset. ” I went to look for my friend, Mayowa, whose wife said she had not seen him and that he was not picking her calls. Someone told me he was at Odogunyan and by the time I got to where he was, I met Pencil (suspected fleeing gang leader) who ordered me to go inside the room. He warned that whatever I saw should be between everyone there. “I saw the two Alhajis on the floor. At about 9.30pm, two persons came with trucks to move the operators who were bound, to the uncompleted company. I overheard him (Pencil) saying he would kill the operators and I mentioned it to Mayowa my friend and told him I would not want to be involved in the death of anyone. Pencil pointed a gun at my head, insisting I must obey what he said. “My role was to stay outside and watch out for any intruder. I was in the company of Sikiru and we were six in number on that day; Innocent, Joseph, Sikiru, Pencil, Mayowa, and myself. “Pencil gave me N40,000, the next day. But I later got to know that they collected N1.6million. We are all members of Eiye confraternity”, he said. It could be recalled that about two months ago, the operators; Alhaji Yakubu Musa and Alhaji Hassan Umaru, whose offices are located at Benson area of Ikorodu, were invited by the gang members, on the pretext that they needed to sell 10,000 dollars. However, when the operators got to the designated point of meeting, they were kidnapped by members of the gang, who thereafter, killed them, after collecting N1.6 million ransoms. Three suspects: Oluwatosin Olanrewaju, Mayowa Olawuni, popularly called General and Babatunde Idris a.k.a Aloma, were earlier arrested in connection with the kidnap and murder. Their confession led to the discovery of an abandoned company in Odogunyan area of Ikorodu, where the corpses were dumped inside a septic tank. Two other corpses, discovered to be those of rival cultists were also discovered in the septic tank. The bodies which were in their decomposing states were exhumed last week by SARS operatives.