Our reporter A civil society organisation, Progressive Movement for Peace and Democracy (PMPD) has accused Alhaji Bashir Tofa and members of his Kano Concerned Citizens Initiative (KCCI) of deliberate actions to raise tension in the state as a means to achieving apparent selfish motive of discrediting the government. In a statement on Sunday signed by the coordinator of PMPD, Malam Badamasi Abubakar and sent to Daily Times, the group said Tofa and his KCCI have through their activities attempted to portray Kano in bad light where there is tension. It said the propaganda by the Tofa group commenced as from the day the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared the February 19 governorship election in the state as inconclusive. ‘’Some members of the group are at one time or the other card -carrying members of political parties in the state, some of them have been given responsibilities by the governments in the past, but failed woefully to deliver quality service to the people and were therefore, dropped by the present government. “It is very clear by their action therefore, that they are playing politics for a reason which is to discredit the present administration in the state. The group, which was created last year does not represent any interest in the society, but the whims and caprices of it proprietors,’’ the statement added. According to the statement, by mere looking at the composition of the group, it can adduce to the fact that they are a sullen group with various grudges against the state government. Malam Abubakar, while referring to the group’s latest press statement titled: “On the current situation in Kano’’ and signed by its Chairman, Alhaji Bashir Othman Tofa, in which it categorically condemned the decision of the state government to create new emirates, said the action could not in any way cause disunity among the Muslim Hausa speaking people of Kano. ‘’Where were these people as individuals or groups when the Emir of Kano Muhammadu Sanusi II was imposed on the people of Kano and the violence that ensued thereafter. Are they not aware of the emir’s participation in politics to which himself has almost confessed and sought Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduj’e forgiveness?” the statement queried. The coordinator said such statements by the Tofa group are capable of inciting trouble in Kano which has remained largely peaceful. While supporting the government’s decision to create the new emirates, the body said the action will bring about more development, further accusing the Tofa group of turning a blind eye to the various achievements of the present administration in Kano state. The statement allayed any fears that people outside Kano might entertain that there is tension in the state and urged the government not to fold its arms, and watch any breakdown of law and order.