The Acting Consulate-General of People’s Republic of China in Lagos, Guan Zhonggu has revealed that 60 percent of the first phase of its bilateral partnership agreement with Nigeria through the CCECC would be completed by 2021. Guan made this assertion at a press parley held in the Chinese consulate office in Lagos to sensitize the world about its open trade policy framework designed from the outcome of the second edition of the ‘Belt and Road Forum’ held in Beijing, with 40 leaders and 38 countries heads of state in attendance . He maintained that major ongoing infrastructure construction in Nigeria especially the railways, deep sea ports and free trade zones handled by CCECC will accelerate industrialization and urbanization of regions along the line, and foster integrated economic development. Liu Junsheng the Commercial Consul of Consulate General of Chinese in Lagos while reeling out the progress report of the Chinese/Nigeria bilateral agreement, said that Nigeria Railway Modernization Project Lagos-Ibadan section with extension to Lagos Port Apapa  connects three important states namely Lagos,Ogun and Oyo states has a total contract sum of 1.581bn dollars. “The Export –Import Bank of China (EIBC) provided 1.267bn dollars of concessional loans accounting for 80.14percent of the total contract sum of the Addendum No.2 and 2A; and the Nigerian Federal Government provides counterpart funds of 314million dollars, accounting for 19.86 percent. According to him the project spans 3years from May2017 and expected to complete in May 2020 and it adopts China Railway Primary Standard, with a designed speed of 150km/h. “CCECC being a subsidiary of CRCC has organized a management team of great performance with professional planning. Construction works commenced simultaneously in different sections of the project with over 10,000 foreign and local employees and over 1,600 sets of equipment. ” The project has been progressing with safety, quality and efficiency despite the rainy season, tight schedule and various obstacles. “Over 80% of the foundation works and over 100kilometers of double track laying have been completed. Further, track laying to Ibadan is progressing at a rate of 2km per day. The project is planned to be completed in May 2020. “The rail line will serve as a better means of collection, distribution and mass movement of haulage to and from the Lagos Port thereby decongesting port and eliminating the grid locks often caused by trailers on the road. “The completion of the project will also increase the throughput capacity of the Lagos Port which can facilitate the development of the port and enhance the positive influence of Lagos City on its north-east regions. He also cited the fact that CCECC has been providing professional railway training for local engineers, technicians and has successfully trained a great number of them with relevant knowledge and skills. As well as involvement in Corporate Social Responsibility to host communities, constructing roads, desilting ditches and relocation and modernization of some local schools along the corridor.