Nosa Akenzua, Asaba The Delta state council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) has condemned the harassment of journalists in order to intimidate them and deny them the freedom to hold government accountable as enshrined in the constitution. Speaking during the celebration of the World Press Freedom Day at the NUJ Press Centre in Asaba, the state NUJ Chairman, Comrade Michael Ikeogwu said that the freedom of the press encompasses all forms of independence on the part of media practitioners to do their jobs. He recalled the recent assault of a journalist in Sapele by security operatives in an attempt to stop the journalist from doing his job during a protest. Ikeogwu called on the government and its officials, including security agents to stop infringing on the rights of journalists who daily risk their lives to uncover ills that daily bedevil the society. The union leader equally admonished employers to desist from the habit of not paying journalists as and when due, insisting that such an attitude is capable of jeopardizing the integrity of the journalists when they are offered any sort of inducement. He further challenged politicians to stop the act of impunity where they chase journalists with thugs for reporting their negative sides, positing that henceforth, such impunities would be vehemently resisted. The NUJ chairman however, berated erring members who are unrepentant in breaking the ethics of journalism and urged journalists in the state to fashion out ways of carrying out their duties objectively without jeopardizing their safety. “The NUJ at the national level should work with the National Assembly to enact laws that will make it impossible for traditional media practitioners to suffer undue intimidation, while also penalizing those who indulge in unprofessional conducts, especially via the social media,” he added. The theme of this year’s edition of the World Press Freedom Day is: “Media for democracy: Journalism and election in times of disinformation.” The Press Freedom Day is celebrated across the world every May 3. It represents an opportunity to advance fundamental principles of press freedom and to pay solemn tributes to journalists who have lost their lives in the line of duty.