Gbenga Sodeinde, Ado Ekiti Ekiti state Chairman of the Trade Union Congress (TUC), Comrade Sola Adigun has said the acceptance of the olive branch extended by Governor Kayode Fayemi to major opposition figures after his victory at the Supreme Court confirms that Nigeria’s democracy is gradually maturing. Fayemi had last week after the apex court dismissed the appeal filed by  the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in the July 14 poll, Prof. Kolapo Olusola, appealed to opposition to join forces with him to build a virile state that would be economically strong and politically stable. Shortly after the plea, Olusola had in a statement he personally signed congratulated Gov. Fayemi on his victory, urging him to focus attention on those things that will unite the state and bring democracy dividends to the people. The TUC boss in a statement in Ado Ekiti on Thursday observed that the acceptance of the verdict by the major political actors in the state had reinforced the people’s belief in the fact that the ruling elite are now committed to the sustenance of democracy. Adigun congratulated Gov. Fayemi on his victory which he said coincided with the two decades of the country’s return to civil rule. “The apex court’s verdict has lain to rest the conflict about the actual winner of the Ekiti people’s mandate of July 14, 2018. I charge the governor that the electoral and judicial victories were indeed, second opportunity to put to use his long years training as a pro -democracy activist and development expert to make Ekiti great. “He must live by his words that he will be magnanimous in victory by being receptive to diverse opinions, suggestions and criticisms from the opposition figures, as that will add glamour to our fledgling democracy. “The slogan of reclaiming the land and restoring the values which Fayemi adopted should manifest in all spheres of human capital development and infrastructure, particularly education which is a sector that deals with the remoulding of life,” the labour leader said. Meanwhile, the National Chairman of the Academic Staff Union of Secondary Schools (ASUSS), Comrade Dam Omaji has commended the federal government for the establishment of the National Secondary Schools Commission. A statement made available to journalists in Ado Ekiti, reiterated that the establishment of the commission was a product of the long drawn advocacy by stakeholders in the education sector. Omaji added that ASUSS was convinced that the commission will improve the quality of secondary education in terms of unified and regulated curriculum. “It will also improve the recruitment of qualified personnel into the teaching service as well as improve government funding in the sector. We call on the federal government to make appointment of membership of the commission competitive so as to pave way for the emergence of professionals who would drive the process. “Government must ensure that practising and retired secondary schools tutors who are the direct stakeholders of the sector, as well as representatives of tested parents should be considered for such appointments,” he said.