Chukwuemeke Iwelunmo In a move tailored at increasing capacity to take care of growing cargo volumes, West Africa’s foremost ground handler, nahco aviance, has expanded the size of its export warehouse. The new facility, comprising three sections; Annex Extension, the Canopy Area and the Ramp Area comes on the heels of expanding airfreight volume in the country.  The Annex extension has a dimension of 270 square metre; the Canopy area 352 square metre and the Ramp area 55 square metre. The facility provides adequate space for packaging rising cargo exports by clients who have demonstrated a preference for nahco as their handling partner of choice. Published reports showed that export tonnage for Q1, 2019 stood at 3,679,283. This is 950,308 more than the Q1, 2018 figure of 2,728,975 square metre. The trend is widely expected to continue. Nahco handles more than 65 per cent of export cargo in the country. The company is the favoured choice of leading airlines like British Airways, Delta, Emirates, Ethiopian and Turkish Airlines. Commenting on the new facility, the Group Managing Director/CEO, Mrs Olatokunbo Fagbemi said the company will continually upgrade on its facilities and modernize its operations as a matter of policy. “We are constantly improving and innovating and we are happy our clients are delighted about what we are doing. The new nahco aviance is one that plays by the rules and ensures that all its processes meet international standards. We will continue to delight our clients in many more ways and guarantee them great satisfaction.” According to her, NAHCO is doing all it can to support the Federal Government in its export drive and would support all exporters, both big and small, in order to help achieve this. NAHCO’s ultra-modern warehouse, the first of its kind in the West Africa sub-region, was commissioned in 2012 as part of efforts by the company to offer excellent cargo services to its clients. Only recently, the Company received an award for consistent payment of dividends. The Award, one of several for the Company, was in recognition of the Company’s persistence in rewarding its shareholders who have put their faith in NAHCO. The Award organisers, Third Observers Nigeria Limited, commended NAHCO Plc for 10 years of unbroken dividend payments as a listed company on the Nigeria Stock Exchange pointing out that NAHCO remains the shining light of Nigeria’s privatization programme. According to Chairman of the Award Coordinating Committee, Third Observers Limited, Mr Abiodun Ayodele, none of the privatized companies who are now listed on the NSE has the same consistent performance as NAHCO. He stated, “NAHCO’s story is indeed one that should form the topic of several case studies in performance of a company weaned of the ineptitude of public service to an efficient organization in the private sector. It is truly an amazing story that needs to be retold again and again.”