Our correspondent There is excitement in Owerri, the capital of Imo state and its environs as final preparations are being made for the smooth inauguration of a new administration to be led by the in-coming Governor, Emeka Ihedioha. As part of the preparations, the planning committee set up by the governor-elect has commenced emergency repairs at the dilapidated Dan Anyiam Stadium, the venue where most of the activities leading to the inauguration and swearing-in ceremonies on May 29 would hold. The on-going repairs at the two major sections of the stadium, the Grasshopper Handball Stadium and the football pitch are to see the place which has been abandoned by the present government habitable for the people of Imo state and visitors who will be turning out in their numbers to herald the coming of a new Imo in the coming days. According to the Secretary of the Works/Venue Committee, Chidi Clinton Okoli, the renovation exercise is completely funded by the in-coming Governor, Emeka Ihedioha. He noted that the state government has not contributed a dime or even cooperated with the committee in the rehabilitation and renovation process, adding that “we are renovating all the toilets, both the VIP and the ones at the public stands. It’s sad to note that there is no functional toilet or bathroom in this whole complex. “We are also repairing all the seats as well as painting the walls and fixing the barricades. The drainages are all blocked and we are cleaning all of them up. By the time we complete what we are doing here, I’m certain the place will be habitable for Imo people and our visitors.” Speaking further, he commended the in-coming governor standing up to the challenge of rebuilding Imo, stating that Ihedioha has shown that he is indeed, prepared to rebuild and reposition the state. It would be recalled that Daily Times had last week reported that the committee for the inauguration of Emeka Ihedioha had raised the alarm of obvious acts of sabotage by out-going Governor, Rochas Okorocha. The report had stated that a statement signed by the Secretary to the committee on Media and Publicity, Emeka Omeihe and made available this newspaper had alleged that few days to the May 29 hand –over date, the governor has done nothing tangible to show readiness for the handover, in spite of several meetings held by the joint committee set up by the two sides on the matter.