Nosa Akenzua, Asaba Commissioner for Economic Planning in Delta state, Kingsley Emu has said that power rotation has come to stay in the state as a result of its huge benefits to the three senatorial districts. Emu made the disclosure while addressing participants at a three-day workshop on strategic political communication in governance organized by the office of the executive assistant to the state governor on communications in collaboration with the office of the secretary to the state government in Asaba. He noted that power rotation in the state has enhanced peaceful coexistence among the various ethnic nationalities, adding that it was important for information, media and communication persons in government to key into the rotation policy for a stronger Delta state. “It is important for participants at this very important workshop to understand the gains of power rotation in the state; as it has helped previous governments and the Okowa administration in peace building, socio-economic and infrastructural development in the three senatorial districts. “We are not going to jettison power rotation which is why it will be the turn of Delta Central to govern the state from May 29, 2023, for eight years of two tenures under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). “As beneficiaries of this political communication capacity building programme, it is your automatic assigned responsibility to project the power rotation agenda of the state alongside other activities in the mainstream and social media. “Our amiable governor has done well in his first tenure and his scorecard is in print. I encourage you to read the scorecard from cover to cover so as to enable you respond to political detractors with facts and figure. “As we speak, Gov. Okowa is busy inspecting new projects and commissioning roads across the state which is why you must keep updating yourselves with achievements of government so as to better inform the citizens from time to time,” Emu said. In the same vein, a former commissioner in the state and political scientist, Ebenezer Okorodudu, corroborated Emu’s position, positing that the Urhobo nation of Delta Central remains committed to the ideals of power rotation as initiated by former Governor James Onanefe Ibori and other leaders in the three senatorial districts.