By Andrew Orulua, Abuja A Federal High Court in Lagos on Wednesday adjourned until May 24, a suit filed by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) seeking the final forfeiture of about $8.4 million and N7.4 billion found in accounts allegedly linked to former First Lady, Patience Jonathan. Justice Mojisola Olatoregun adjourned the suit for continuation of affidavit evidence, after defence counsel informed the court that the defence requires time to look at a counter -affidavit served on it by the anti-graft agency. Before yesterday’s hearing, the EFCC had in April 20, 2018, secured an interim order for forfeiture of the amounts before Justice Olatoregun following a motion ex parte. It joined as respondents, Patience Jonathan, Globus Integrated Services Limited, Finchley Top Homes Limited, Am-Pm Global Network Limited, Pagmat Oil and Gas Limited and Magel Resort Limited and Esther Oba. On October 29 of the same year, counsel to the EFCC, Mr. Rotimi Oyedepo had moved his motion for final forfeiture of the sums, urging that same be finally forfeited to the federal government. However, defence counsel, Messrs Ifedayo Adedipe (SAN), Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN) and Mr. Ige Asemudara respectively, had moved their processes opposing the motion for final forfeiture. On January 15, 2019, the court had admitted electronic evidences presented by respondent counsel which depicted video exhibits showing various business outfits of Finchley Top Homes Limited. and Magel Resort Limited. The court had then adjourned for judgment. But, in a judgment delivered on February 28, the court held that it finds the affidavit evidences conflicting, adding that same can only be resolved by the oral evidences of parties to the suit and thereafter, ordered the parties to call their witnesses. At the last adjourned date, an EFCC witness, Mr. Orji Chukwuma had concluded evidence before the court after which the court had adjourned for continuation of evidence. When the case was called yesterday, the EFCC counsel, Oyedepo informed the court that he had filed a counter -affidavit which he had served on the defence, adding that he was ready to proceed. Confirming the service of the counter –affidavit, defence counsel, Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN), added that there were new facts deposed in same which he requires time to look at and respond appropriately. He therefore, sought an adjournment which was not opposed by other counsel. Consequently, the court adjourned until May 24 for continuation of trial during which evidence will now continue.