Ladesope Ladelokun LG Electronics, a global electronics producing company has officially launched its new mirror black LG Art cool Air Conditional (AC) into the Nigerian market. Speaking at the product launch event in Lagos, Head of Corporate Marketing, West Africa Operations, LG electronics, Harry Krishna Elluru, who was excited over the lunch of the LG air conditional, noted that the new product has been designed to suit the modern day house décor. He explained that the new LG Art cool air conditional is made of black ultra-silk design, which makes it beautiful and of a great performance. According to him, “In terms of performance, the new LG air condition comes with dual inverter AC that gives 70 per cent energy efficiency and 40 per cent fast cooling.” Elluru, further explained that the product comes with a Wifi service which has been built to suit customers with the easy access service from either within the house or far away by using the smart linking application through their phones. He added that the wifi feature which is called artificial intelligence comes with other LG appliances to make operations easier. Speaking further on the uniqueness and operating benefits of the new product, Home Entertainment, West Africa Operations, LG Electronics, Mr. Paul Mba, explained that the appliance compressor which is dual inverter makes it different from other regular AC. “Every regular Air Conditioner has one variable, which is responsible for pumping gas into the indoor unit for its cooling ability, but the dual inverter itself comes with two variables which help to pump the gas faster, to realize  the 40 per cent Cooling system”, Paul said. He, also, added that the AC unlike others doesn’t consume energy which enables it to save 70 per cent energy. However, the utmost uniqueness of the product according to the company’s representatives has  10 years warranty on the dual inverter compressor, aside from the normal 2years warranty that comes with every other LG products. The product price according to the company will be available in the next few weeks.