…Accuses Presidency of descending low in sponsoring fictitious report Tunde Opalana, Abuja Former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has charged President Muhammadu Buhari as the Commander- in – Chief of Nigerian Armed Forces to take total responsibility for all security breaches in the country. Atiku advised Nigerians not to be deceived by a fictitious report of an American based non- governmental organisation on the security situation in the country. He knocked the Buhari administration for descending so low to the extent of sponsoring commissioned report contrary to obvious facts about insecurity that is ravaging the nation. In a statement issued on Tuesday by his media adviser, Paul Ibe, the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said the propagandist report is the deepest low that Muhammadu Buhari administration has gone in causing further division and promoting instability in Nigeria. “Anyone versed enough in the protocol of international NGOs will discern without much ado that the particular report by a faceless, insipid organisation known as ‘Centre for Diplomacy and Democracy’ was contrived with express mobilisation from officials of the Buhari administration in a shameless and disingenuous attempt to find a jejune explanation for the rising rate of insecurity in Nigeria. “Our investigations have revealed that there is no such report as being touted and no such body called ‘Centre for Diplomacy and Democracy’. Americans will never write ‘Centre’. They will write ‘Center’ in conformity to the American English usage. “It is so distasteful that the Buhari administration, rather than have a self-introspection and admit to the world that its policies and actions are responsible for the divisions in the country, with manifestation of all manner of crimes such as banditry, kidnapping and wanton killings across the land, chooses to employ the service of a faceless NGO to blame the opposition for its own ineptitude. “The Buhari administration and the ruling APC are renowned for propaganda stunt and double-speak. Sadly, it does not matter to them the disturbing number of criminalities happening on daily basis in Nigeria. In their warped thinking, the performance rate of security chiefs during times like this is determined on how much weight the Inspector General of Police has lost. The question to ask is: how would the APC have reproved a president who makes such careless remarks on national security at a time when insecurity in the country has assumed epidemic proportions? “President Buhari and the APC have shown without equivocation that the job at hand is overwhelming for them. And because they lack the basic clue of how to tame the bogey that they have created, they now scamper around like school kids who have caused an upset in a highly sensitive science laboratory”, he said. Atiku reminded President Buhari that the buck stops on his table and his infantile style of looking for whom to blame for his failures will not obliterate his abysmal record of performance in the past four years. He added that “Nigerians don’t pray for a president who passes the buck. All they want is a president who can hold the bull at the horn and get the job done. After all, President Buhari took an oath to defend lives and property of the citizens, which is the primary responsibility of every government”.