Andrew Orolua, Abuja The Federal High Court in Abuja has ordered the National Judicial Council (NJC), Federal Government, the Senate and four others to appear before it on May 13, 2019 to show cause why they should not be stopped from appointing Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad as the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN). The Board of Incorporated Trustees of Malcolm Omirhobo Foundation had, in an exparte motion filed on April 15, 2019 asked the court for  an order restraining President Muhammadu Buhari from appointing  Justice Ibrahim  Muhammad as the CJN. The plaintiff also  asked the court to stop Justice Muhammad’s appointment as CJN, pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice filed by the foundation. They also asked for an order of interim injunction restraining the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (7th defendant) from confirming the appointment of Justice Muhammad as CJN pending the determination of the substantive suit challenging his appointment. Justice Inyang Ekwo who heard the exparte motion said that after reading the affidavit in support of the motion sworn to by Chief Malcolm Emokiniovo Omirhobo, a lawyer, he was of view that: “None of the prayers made on this motion exparte can be granted in the absence of the defendants”. Justice Ekwo, then ordered the National Judicial Council (NJC), Federal Judicial Service Commission, Justice Muhammad, Federal Government, President Buhari Attorney General of the Federation and the Senate, who are the first to  seven defendants in the motion to be put on notice. He gave the defendants seven days, upon being served with notice on the matter, to appear and show cause why the application of the plaintiff should not be granted. Justice Ekwo then adjourned till May 13, 2019 for the defendants to appear in court to show cause. In another unrelated matter,  Justice Ekwo heard the application filed by Senator Ademola Adeleke the Osun State’s  Peoples Democratic Party Governorship candidate who is standing trial for examination malpractices but want to travel abroad for medical check up. The judge obliged his request and  ordered the release of  Senator Ademola Adeleke’s  International Passport   to enable him travel to the United States of America (USA) for the medical check up. Granting the order in an motion exparte filed on April 30, 2019 by the senator, the judge directed the Deputy Chief Registrar of the Federal High Court, Abuja to release Adeleke’s travel documents to enable him travel abroad between the period of May 2nd and 9th, 2019. “The respondent (Police) shall not prevent the first defendant from traveling for medical attention upon attending the invitation of the respondent on May 6th, 2019”, the Judge ordered and adjourned till June 10, to commence trial in the examination malpractices charge slammed against Adeleke and others by the Police. Recalled that the defendant travel documents were deposited with the Court as part of the bail condition granted the Senator in self recognition.