…As army confirms attack, loss of 5 soldiers. Bans use of Okada in 7 states …Normalcy gradually returning, residents say Andrew Orolua, Abuja Suspected members of the dreaded terrorist group, Boko Haram, on Sunday, invaded a military base located at the outskirts of Magumeri, headquarters of Magumeri Local Government Area of Borno State, resulting in the death of five soldiers and an unconfirmed number of Boko Haram fighters. Fleeing residents of Magumeri community who escaped into the bush during the ensuing gun fight have already started returning back to their homes as the security situation normalises. Magumeri Local Government Area of Borno State which is located 35 kilometers north of Maiduguri, the state capital, has witnessed several attacks by Boko Haram terrorists in the recent past. Confirming the attack on the military base, the army confirmed on Sunday that troops of Sector 3 ‘Operation Lafiya Dole’ deployed at forward operation base Magumeri, Borno State had a fierce encounter with Boko Haram terrorists on May 3. According to the army, during the encounter, five soldiers were killed while several Boko Haram terrorists were eliminated. A statement issued and signed by Col. Ezindu Idima, spokesman for Sector 3, said the criminals came in numbers to infiltrate Magumeri Village in order to loot food items and other valuables. “The indefatigable troops effectively thwarted the terrorists’ plan through superior fire power. During the encounter, the gallant troops exterminated scores of the insurgents and many escaped with gunshot wounds. “A pursuit and clearance operation has been sustained to deal with the remaining fleeing criminals. Recall that the Multi -National Joint Task Force (MNJTF) launched ‘Operation Yancin Tafki’ in February this year. “The operation has denied the terrorists freedom of action and access to foodstuffs and other logistics which forced them to resort to looting vulnerable communities and villages for food stuffs and other necessities. However, during the encounter the terrorists suffered heavy losses/ casualty. “Unfortunately, five soldiers paid the supreme price. Troops have continued to intensify vigilance and high level of alertness to deny the bandits freedom of action. “The Commander Sector 3 ‘Operation Lafiya Dole’, Maj. Gen. Olufemi Akinjobi, has on behalf of the chief of army staff commended the troops for their gallantry, resilience and patriotism. “He charged them to maintain the momentum and the successes achieved so far to ensure the final defeat of the terrorists. Meanwhile, residents who witnessed the attack on the community, narrated that the Boko Haram terrorists stormed the town in a large convoy of trucks and motor-cycles shouting, slogans like “Allahu Akbar” meaning, “God is Great” and moving round the town scaring residents who fled into bushes for safety. A staff of Magumeri Local Government Area, who preferred anonymity, but accompanied officials of the council that visited the town to assess the damage done to the base and the community with a view to assisting victims, said that “we are aware of the attack. “We were told since Friday evening when they entered Magumeri, but we couldn’t come over immediately, due to the security situation till this morning (Sunday) when we are able to reach Magumeri Town and went round the town assessing the situation. “We found out that no structure was affected neither was anybody killed or wounded as suspected during the invasion by the Boko haram insurgents. But, a lot of damage has been done to the military base and property in the base. “The military officials refused and denied us access to visit the base to assess the extent of destruction at the formation which is located along the Magumeri-Gubio Road,” the source stated. He, however, said that normalcy has returned to the town and that both the military, police, civil defence and the civilian joint taskforce have since returned back to their respective bases. However, in a related development, the army on Sunday in Abuja, through its acting Director, Army Public Relations, Col Sagir Musa, in a statement titled: “Enforcement of ban on the use of motorcycles in ex-Harbin Kunama area of responsibility,” said in furtherance of its efforts at curtailing the murderous activities of armed bandits and kidnappers in the Northern states, the Nigerian Army under its exercise ‘Harbin Kunama 111’ has banned the use of motorcycles in seven states of the North because the perpetrators of these criminal acts make use of motorcycles. It said that “the Nigerian Army (NA) over time has observed the use of motorcycles by armed bandits, kidnappers, criminal elements and their collaborators as enablers to perpetrate their heinous crimes especially in the states within the north west geopolitical zone of the country. “This informed the decision and directive to ban the use of motorcycles within the hinterland particularly around the Forests where the armed bandits, criminals and kidnappers hibernate and all around where troops are conducting operations alongside other security agencies. “While this may cause some inconveniences to some law abiding citizens in the area, the need to use all means possible to stop the dastardly activities of these bandits across the North West part of Nigeria needs no emphasis. “The general public, particularly in the North West and some parts of North Central in Nigeria where exercise ‘Harbin Kunama’ is ongoing are enjoined to bear with the Nigerian Army (NA) as concerted efforts are being made to combat the insecurity menace ongoing within the area. “In this wise, it is hereby reiterated that the use of motorcycles remain banned within the forest areas in Kano, Katsina, Zamfara, Sokoto, Kaduna, Kebbi and Niger states.” It warned that anyone caught using motorcycles within the named areas will be taken for an armed bandit, criminal and kidnapper with dire consequences. “The respective state governments are enjoined to please disseminate the ban on the use of motorcycles in the named areas and enforce the ban in conjunction with the security agencies,” Col. Sagir added.