Ahmad Sorondinki, Kano Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano state has announced that a major purge would soon take place in the administrative machinery of the state to ensure that only the right people are allowed to play roles in the scheme of things. In a press release signed by his Director General Media and Strategy, Aminu Yassar, Ganduje, explained that the shake-up which is part of his broad vision to move the state to the next level would affect all political appointees except his deputy, Dr. Nasiru Gawuna. “The shake-up will affect all commissioners, special advisers, senior special assistants, personal assistants, heads of government agencies and directors, among others. In the same vein, the state Hisbah board and local governments will face major reorganization,” the governor disclosed. He however, assured that nobody will be victimized, adding that “we will not retrench anybody, but we will appoint only loyal and dedicated people into sensitive positions.” Ganduje, who spoke during an APC stakeholders meeting at Africa House, Government House Kano, stated that the managerial changes have already commenced with sweeping reforms on the top stratum of the state civil service. “We started with permanent secretaries because they are the backbone of the civil service. If the backbone is weak and disloyal to the government, what should you expect? We shall therefore, appoint only selfless, hardworking and trustworthy people into positions of responsibility,” the governor asserted. Stating that he would not allow fifth columnists to derail his second tenure as they attempted in the past, Ganduje added that those who supported the APC in the recent presidential and other elections would be compensated. The governor mandated APC stakeholders in the 44 local government areas of the state to within two weeks, nominate 10 persons each to be given positions. The nominees, he added, must be selected based on carefully defined criteria, including loyalty, experience, political dexterity, academic qualification and zoning among others. He assured that his administration would continue to support the APC to become stronger, highlighting that “the 2019 election was a school that taught us many things ahead of 2023.”