European Union (EU) member states put off a decision on Friday on Britain’s request to delay its departure from the EU beyond Oct. 31, amid uncertainty on whether the British parliament would decide to hold a general election. European Commission spokeswoman Mina Andreeva made this known following a two-hour meeting of ambassadors from the 27 remaining member states. She said, “The EU27 have agreed to the principle of an extension and work will now continue in the coming days.” She added that there were currently no plans for an emergency leaders’ summit to resolve the issue. EU ambassadors are expected to reconvene early next week. Meanwhile, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said that Brexit could still take place next week if the EU did not grant a delay – contradicting senior ministers who said that it was too late to ratify the Brexit divorce agreement by then. “As things stand we can leave on Oct. 31. “Parliament, as you know, has decided that they want to ask Brussels to keep us in the EU,” Johnson told reporters during a visit to a school. He said that he was “totally against” any extension, saying: “We should be leaving on Oct. 31.” Johnson was legally required to seek the extension but made it clear at the time that he opposed it. Member states have been divided over whether to grant the three-month Brexit delay formally requested by Britain – possibly with an early opt-out – or whether to offer London a shorter window to ratify the Brexit deal agreed with Brussels. The timetable was thrown into further disarray on Thursday when Johnson proposed early elections on Dec. 12, arguing that a new government should finalise Brexit if his deal is not ratified by then. The British parliament is supposed to decide on Monday whether to hold early elections. The issue is “one parameter,” but not the only issue, an EU diplomat said on condition of anonymity. Meanwhile however, Britain’s opposition Labour party is making its decision on an election contingent on what length of Brexit extension Brussels is willing to offer, for fear of sliding into a possible no-deal scenario. The ratification of the Brexit deal ground to a halt this week, when parliament in London indicated its approval but scrapped a proposed three-day timetable to scrutinise it and turn it into law. Johnson was compelled to lodge a request for a three-month extension, against his will, by an act of British parliament last weekend. One possibility is a so-called “flextension,” whereby London would leave the EU before Jan. 31 in the event the exit deal is ratified by both British and EU lawmakers ahead of time. The Brexit withdrawal agreement regulates the terms of Britain’s departure from the EU for an interim period while the two sides agree on their future relationship. Without the deal, EU rules would stop applying to Britain overnight, likely leading to uncertainty and chaos for citizens and businesses on both sides.