Boko Haram leader Abubakar Shekau, has said that Islam is not Borno’s religion and that the governor of Boron state should epent; saying that they do not need to repent ‘it is your the governor of Borno that needs to repent and that  cannot get paradise with what he  is doing now. Abubakar Shekau  speaking in Kanuri and Hausa  to Babagana Zulum the Boron state governor in an audio he released on Sunday said : “I decided to deliver this message to clarify an issue in order for the public to understand our stand so that they would not be misguided,” the Boko Haram leader said. Boko Haram’s Shekau takes on Borno Gov, Zulum “I’m speaking on the claims of the governor of Borno state that some of our members were forced to join us against their will and now they are tired of fighting. I want to tell the governor that we are not tired yet. We have not even started. It is our wish to die fighting. We are on top of our game and by the grace of God we are going die doing this. We are still here. “You should know that in Islam, you cannot receive the forgiveness of Allah if you die without accepting Islam. Even the disciples of Islam, including the parent of a prophet of Islam, were not pardoned by God because they died without accepting Islam. According to Shekau: His members that want to leave, "know that is about Allah, it is not about any human being." Informed analysts consider the exchange a good sign and have urged the governor not to relent in engaging the insurgents at all necessary levels. 3/3 According to Shekau: His members that want to leave, "know that is about Allah, it is not about any human being." Informed analysts consider the exchange a good sign and have urged the governor not to relent in engaging the insurgents at all necessary levels. 3/3 “The governor should know that Islam is not Borno’s religion, it is not religion of Yobe or Kano; it is not a religion from Nigeria, or Niger or Cameroon. It is God’s religion sent down from heaven and explained to us clearly by the prophet. “For that reason, people should desist from giving wrong interpretation to the verses of the Holy Quran. For example, the verses that the governor quoted about forgiveness were not only wrong but used out of context; even this is enough shame on you governor. “It is not for us to repent; it is your governor of Borno that needs to repent. You cannot get paradise with what you are doing now. “The world is full of people seeking its secular gains, and it abounds for all, but heaven is only for those that worked for it. Paradise is meant only for those who follow the path of God. Neither power nor wealth can earn one paradise. The people of Borno should repent and seek the face of God… This is my message to the people of Borno.” “For us, democracy is an act of infidelity toward God. Democracy means “demons and cratos”. These are man-made laws that you follow, and God has forbidden us from following man-made laws. God has enjoined us to worship none except Him alone. “But here you are obeying the constitution when we have the Quran. It is better to be buried under the earth than to live in this kind of misguided generation. “This is my message to the people of Borno in response to the speech made by their governor. “That is why I kept saying that any of our members that will come and join us only for him to leave because he is tired, is just wasting his time. They should know that even we only depend on God in all that we do. Anyone that knows the Holy Quran won’t want to spend a second amongst those infidels.”