Employers have been asked to ensure that a healthy balance is achieved between work and personal life of workers to enhance productivity for business. This is according to the National President  of the Association of Senior Staff Of Banks, Insurance And Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI), Comrade Oyinkan Olasanoye, who spoke at the 2019 World Day for Decent Work celebration in Lagos, tagged, “Threat to Job Security and Work-life Balance in Digitalized Work environment – the legal perspective. She explained that the theme is intended to examine the impact of ICT, tool robots, automated machines and artificial intelligence on work-life balance and occupational hazards. “Yes, technology has brought relative convenience and speed to job delivery, enhance customer service, improved efficiency, productivity and reduced human error particularly in the finance sector. Advances in technology is certainly allowing workers to work in new ways that weren’t possible in the past without such constraints as location.” Read Also: Former Covenant VC harps on discipline, fear of God to address sex scandal in tertiary institutions Olasanoye, further stressed that, “as employers keep coming up with innovations to the work environments, it has become necessary that we too should brace up by continuously up-skilling and investing in lifelong learning development. Let’s strenghten our position and image as representative of workers and be ready always to rise against indecent labour practices in our work place. Meanwhile, the National President of Trade Union Congress, TUC, Comrade Quadri Olaleye, said, “In an environment enabled by technology and digital devices, job opportunities are usually affected. In Nigeria, Africa automation is still developing but we must not pretend as if it will not get to us soon. It is here already. And it is important for the unions and workers generally to come to the realization of this development and seriously prepare for the challenges ahead. “As a workers body we cannot but embrace programs, workshops, like these. We must encourage our employers to train and re-train the workers for productivity. We must make them understand that we are in a symbiotic relationship for a common good. We must do everything legal to acquire the required knowledge that would make us remain relevant in the world of work,” he said