Publisher of the Ovation Magazine and former presidential candidate  Dele Momodu, has reacted to the romour that President Muhammadu Buhari will be getting married today. Every Lie Has An Expiration Date.One lie will expire TODAY!Then they'll concoct anotherAnd another.And another.Their lies will always expire.But the man @MBuhari, CANNOT and WILL never be distracted. He has a DESTINY to fix Nigeria and he's doing a great job of it. Oh Yes pic.twitter.com/rRahkduRWj The rumour is that President Buhari will be getting married to Sadia Umar Farouq, the current Minister for Humanitarian Affairs Disaster Management today. Below are some tweets on the marriage #NextLevel:Here we're; unveiling the Nigerian First Lady (Administration) in the person of Hajiya Sadiya Umar Faruq.Indeed, this is another extraordinary legacy set by @MBuhari against all odds.Congratulations Nigerians! pic.twitter.com/FTGl62iY09 BREAKING NEWS: Nigerian first lady has just landed in the Villa but Asorock cabals luck her up. pic.twitter.com/7Voh96ayNE I am getting married again at age 89 to a baby girl.Don’t let your wife stop you from finding true love. #SAMU2019 pic.twitter.com/vyhDCaPiT1 I heard the president is getting married on Friday, Is this true ?? pic.twitter.com/xmjiSqQrH8 Momodu said there would be no such wedding between Buhari and Farouk. Sanwo-Olu donates 50 cars to Lagos magistrates He tweeted, “I have been inundated with calls, and social media is awash, about the news of the President’s impending wedding fatiha tomorrow; let me disappoint the rumour-mongers that nothing of the sort is happening tomorrow, according to my own impeccable sources… Fingers crossed…” Even our 76years old President Buhari cannot resist his love for sweet tight pussy #BUSA19 pic.twitter.com/9pPfDYwHWF Buhari looking at all the jobless youths tweeting about his marriage#BUSA19 pic.twitter.com/Ml4LmKAvBj Is very clear now that the thing called Jubril (well known as Buhari) in Also rock is an imposter 🤔Because he knows that the laws of Islam forbid a married woman to have an affair (sex) with another man that is not her husband, pic.twitter.com/xMXfDCoeYm It's going down guys. The association of Yoruba demons are fully prepared to turn up for Baba today. Shall we? #BUSA19 pic.twitter.com/UEQneEwqFI We are set for #BUSA19Ready to pepper dem at the Villa! We have to represent well pic.twitter.com/Xcrp5R9BaR I have been inundated with calls, and social media is awash, about the news of the President's impending wedding fatiha tomorrow; let me disappoint the rumour-mongers that nothing of the sort is happening tomorrow, according to my own impeccable sources… Fingers crossed…