The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria FAAN has commended passengers for making use of their various platforms in laying complaints, giving suggestions and commendations. The platforms which include Questionnaires, front desk, website, social media, telephone calls and the Ease of Doing Business are said to be very effective in getting feedbacks from the general public according to the General Manager, Customer Service, FAAN, Mrs Ebele Okoye. In an interview with newsmen during a visit to the Little Saints Orphanage Akowonjo in Lagos where the agency made donations, Mrs.Okoye said these platforms were put in a place to assist the Agency to improve and satisfy passengers and Airport users in their service delivery. She urged passengers to ask questions and ask for information whenever they have any challenge at the airport, adding that officers have been deployed to strategic locations to assist passengers. “At the airport you notice that we have a front desk, it is a complain desk if you are at the airport you don’t know what to do quickly get to that place and you find out information, we are also locating signages at very strategic places and when you get into the airport you won’t be confused to make sure that passengers have the best of Service”. According to her, the management of FAAN led by its Managing Director Captain Hamisu Yadudu was committed to ensuring that passengers get comfort, safety and security. Green bond: NSE, LuxSE sign MoU to promote cross listing To this end, the GM Customer Service said sniffer dogs have been deployed to airports including well trained personnel for security purposes. She noted that the dogs would help to reduce the stress of the personnel in checking passengers luggage and other users. “Recently with this new management led by Captain Hamisu Yadudu a lot of things have been done,it is going to reduce the stress they go through, this idea in Nigeria that somebody put hands in my bags  and things like that it is not going to be there, a lot of things are coming up”. On the celebration of the Customer Service Week, Mrs Okoye said the week was meant to appreciate customers and their staff who was always in the line of the duty of attending to the customers and managing their problems. “The aim is to appreciate everyone who has been at the forefront like our front desk officers, they are the ones that take the heat sometimes customers are angry and they come on their way and the heat goes to them”. SEX WORK IS LEGAL HERE. BUT ONLY IF YOU REGISTER WITH THE POLICE She also applauded the efforts of stakeholders who without their support FAAN would not be successful in their Operations. “Without them at the airport, it is not possible to process all the passengers.” And for the passengers especially, She said, “if we don’t have them patronizing us the agency will not have a reason to be there and we are also saying thank you to the customers inspire of some of our differences we may not be there but we know we are matching forward and every day, it has glory onto glory and we are making an impact in FAAN and customer service emphatically has been doing very well in the past couple of years”. As part of the CSW, the Customer Service Department led by Mrs Ebele Okoye made donations to the Little Saints Orphanage in Akowonjo and the New Old People’s Home in Yaba.