The Director-General of the Yahaya Bello CampaignOrganisation, Senator Smart Adeyemi  haswarned rival candidates running against the Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello inthe November 16 election in the state that they are incurring the wrath ofancestors by their actions, adding that Bello’s bid has the stamp of “divine”approval. Adeyemi who spoke while addressing reporters over theweekend in Lokoja, assured that Governor Bello have received key endorsementsfrom traditional leaders and major stakeholders in Kogi’s western senatorialdistrict. The APC stalwart called on the Director-General of the MusaWada Campaign Organisation and PDP member representing Kabba/Bunu/Ijumu in theHouse of Representatives, Tajudeen Yusuf, to resign his appointment, saying hewould be running against the wishes of the people should he fail to do so. “I advise my brother who hails from the same federalconstituency with me, TJ Yusuf to resign as their DG so as not to attract ourancestors’ wrath,” Adeyemi said. “As we stand, the Obaro of Kabba, who is the chairman, OkunTraditional Council, along with Elulu of Mopa, Agbana of Isanlu, Elegbe ofEgbe, Olujumu of Ijumu and other traditional institutions in Okunland, afterconsulting their ancestors, have all endorsed Governor Bello for another term.Anything contrary to this is an attempt to confront a moving train with thestrength of a pickup van. “The traditional institution, through divine guidance, hasresolved to throw its weight behind Yahaya Bello; TJ Yusuf must take that intoaccount. “Nobody who has represented or who is representing our peoplewill go against the divine guidance of the traditional institutions. Doing soamounts to incurring the wrath of the ancestors. “His (Yusuf)political career will be in serious jeopardy and his representation will becomeanti-people. As an elder brother, I advise him to quit his position before heis tagged anti-people. He should be courageous to tell his party to go back tothe drawing board in 2023; this election has been concluded. “For Aro, he should put into perspective the utterances ofhis governorship candidate which amount to telling him that his people areinconsequential in the state. It is parochial and amounts to hate speech. “This election is too important for Kogi West people to fretaway; the election is beyond the social media rhetoric. “There is no moral or political justification for anybody tocampaign for a candidate of a younger brother to a former governor who alsodoubles as an in-law to another former governor. It is more disheartening tosay that these families all contributed to Kogi’s woes which Governor Bello istackling gradually. “If former GovernorIbrahim Idris who is a father in-law of the candidate can reject hisappointment as chairman, campaign council, I don’t know what TJ is stillwaiting for. I advise him to decamp to APC; our doors are opened, we await hisarrival. “TJ should follow thepart of honour and integrity, thank PDP and quit. Many who have rejected theirappointment in the campaign committee knew the woeful outcome that awaitsthem.” Adeyemi said the people of the state would reject anyattempt by one family to colonise the state through the backdoor in theNovember 16 governorship election. The two-term Senator who represented Kogi West in the fifthand sixth National Assembly, said the emergence of Engineer Musa Wada, who isan in-law to ex-governor Ibrahim Idris (being the husband of his firstdaughter) and also a younger brother to the immediate past governor, CaptainIdris Wada, was an affront and an attempt to colonise the state by one family.