The Accountant General of the Federation (AGF), Ahmed Idris has stated that the reform initiatives are aimed at improving governance for efficiency and effectiveness of financial management. He made this known when the Director-General of the Bureau of Public Service Reform (BPSR) Mr Dasuki Arabi and his Management team paid a courtesy visit the Treasury House, Abuja. Idris acknowledged the various reform drives of the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation is not limited to Treasury Single Account (TSA), International Public Sector Accounting Standard (IPSAS), implementation of Integrated Payroll and Personal Information System (IPPIS), Audit modernization and the Government Integrated Financial Management System (GIFMIS). Just in: Fuel tanker explodes, razes down over 40 buildings in Onitsha According to him, “The Audit modernization is aimed at making Audit more scientific by moving from analogue to a more digitized way of Auditing. This is a departure from the old ways of file transfer and Audit, record check in the usual conventional analogue form. “Therefore, the next level of Audit checking is ready, the department has well-trained staff, web-based Audit laboratory filled with computers”, he added. He congratulated Arabi on his appointment as the Director-General of BPSR and that under his leadership, he has carried out good reforms in the Public Service, OAGF and BPSR which have a common goal of making Nigeria change for the better. According to him “Reform initiatives are to move away from old ways of doing things in a modern way. Idris appreciated the Director-General of BPSR in grading the OAGF 90per cent in ranking for their reform initiatives and their zeal to do more. He promised to explore other areas that would benefit both Agencies because of the office clearly understand its mandate in reform initiatives. “Being a coordinating Agency, BPSR would face challenges in the course of the reforms hence OAGF is ever ready to cooperate and partner with them in capacity building and training.” Director-General of BPSR, in his remarks, wanted the AGF for posting a Director of Finance and Accounts to BPSR who has through his experience turned around the accounting system in BPSR and the Financial Autonomy is given to the BPSR by AGF above all. Dasuki said that due to the need for a one-stop-shop where reform information can be obtained, BPSR was set up in 2004 to serve as the engine room and centre for coordination of reforms among the MDAs, that there were pockets of reforms being carried out in different MDAs before BPSR came on board. He stated that, BPSR has a Steering Committee on Reform chaired by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation and assisted by the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation and other members which include Accountant-General of the Federation. “That the main role of the Steering Committee is to guide BPSR to do better, adding that members of the committee are heads of centres and key agencies of Government that have a lot to do in reforms. “The reports of the activities are given to the Steering Committee for validation, approval, and corrections hence, members are expected to send memos and progress reports on the various reforms initiatives in their MDAs”, he said.