Passengers using the Murtala Muhammed International Airport Ikeja will soon start enjoying free WiFi services at the airport. The airport manager, Mrs Victoria Shin-Aba who disclosed at this year’s customer service week organised by the servicom department of FAAN, said the provision of the free WiFi was part of the innovation introduced to improve on its service delivery. According to Shin Aba, MMIA will continue to work towards improving customer satisfaction calling on all to be involved in order to achieve the best for the overall development of the industry. The MMIA manager while stressing the importance of service delivery announced that henceforth, all On Duty Card applicants at the airport will undergo training, orientation and lectures on aviation culture for all to be at the same pace. According to Shin Aba, these changes will ensure that excellent service was provided for customers adding that feedback from customers have made the organization to correct their lapses. While acknowledge challenges associated with its facilities at the airport, Shin-Aba said the organisation was working tirelessly to replace obsolete facilities. In her speech at the occasion, the general manager customer service /Servicom, Mrs Ebele Okoye said the organisations are known for their consistent, good customer relations Mrs Okoye called on personnel of agencies to be above average at all times in order to be consistent and predictable adding that airports in the country must give above average service to attract customer loyalty. She sued for co-operation among FAAN workers and stakeholders at the airport to ensure that everyone was carried along. Mrs Okoye said servicom department has been able to open a complaint help desk across the airports with well-trained officers, providing professional uniform for all the staff of the department for easy identification by the customer. She also explained that service delivery local taskforce team at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport Ikeja, Kano, Abuja, Port Harcourt, Enugu and Benin airports to ensure service compliant with the airport. According to her, the task force was created out of the numerous complaints from customers on the general attitude of stakeholders and other airport workers who do not meet the global acceptable standards.