Mnay customers of one of Nigeria’s bank Access Bank have taken to Twitter on Thursday to decry what some  describe as bad service. Below are some of the tweets from Access Bank’s customers Access Bank that has been playing with my brain since, sometimes I got debit alert twice of my PiggyVest. Mobile app is the worst. I don’t even get credit/ debit alert at appropriate time again, na when dy get time or make them no even send it….  #Accessbank Access Bank keeps getting worse everyday! From irregular debits to excess charges and from bad customer service to malfunctioning ATMs. How did this once promising bank I always praised get this bad? The merger with Diamond? Maybe. Maybe not.#AccessBank you need to fix things. We always hear of so-called system failure from the customers' end, but not so much of it when it comes to banks taking their charges. #Accessbank When waking up to see #Accessbank trending and remembering what they put me through last three months pic.twitter.com/O9WNIdso6o When you see this repeatedly shitty bank trending again but you're safe because you don't bank with them… #Accessbank pic.twitter.com/Ivrz4oXzu6 Today makes it 1week 4days they promised to send the card to ojota branch Yet the card still dey ikorodu branch ….God will punish people in this Country #Accessbank #Accessbank @twitymania has been asking Access Bank @accessbank_help to fix the challenge with a failed transaction of N80, 000. This happened since June but, you guys are yet to fix the problem. She's frustrated with this development and it's obvious you're loosing a client… Oh access bank is on the table? Well, they've been deducting card maintenance fee for card that I don't have. After complaining the fist time, they said they'll block the card, and I was refunded, only for them to do the same shit again this month. @accessbank_help #Accessbank #Accessbank 23,000 have been sent to my account since yesterday and I haven’t been credited yet.Please fix your shit is becoming unbearable I’m about to travel now but your messing around 💔 @myaccessbank Minimum wage : TUC cautions FG against delay Since the merger with Diamond Bank, so many things have gone wrong with #Accessbank This is how Nigerians will drag #Accessbank after waiting for so long pic.twitter.com/O7zrlVfSD2