Nigerian most popular young music star, Oziomachukwu Favour Mojekwu with stage name OzzyBee a.k.a OzzyBosco Wonderkid is set to release his debut Album, titled: “Journey of Life” with the theme; “Stop Suicide Africa” on 6th October, 2019 at the prestigious Sheraton Hotel Lagos. The musical album has 13-tracks featuring notable artistes like Olamide Badoo,  Flavour,  M I, Sound Sultan, Ruggedman,  Vector, Dr Tee Mac, Mr Real, Lamboginny, Midnight Crew and Zlatan lbile in his latest track. Notable personalities expected to grace the occasion include; HRM Igwe KON Orizu III,  the Igwe Nnewi as the Host Royal Father of the day,  His Imperial Majesty,  Oba Enitan Adeyeye Ogunwusi Ojaja II,  the Ooni of Ife as Royal Father of the day,  Chief Dr. Emeka Okonkwo (E-Money),  CEO Five Star Music as chief launcher,  Dr. tee Mac Isele (MFR), Father of the day,  Lady Onyeka Onwenu (MFR) and Mrs Helen Odeleye,  former general manager,  NTA as mothers of the day, Dr (Mrs) Joe Oker-Odumakin as keynote speaker, representatives of Peaceful Mind Foundation of India as well as other dignitaries. In anticipation of the Album Launch, the multi-talented 12 year old artiste has officialy released the musical video of his latest single titled ‘Wig Dance’. “wig Dance” is a fast tempo pop song and features Nigeria’s current hottest musical property on the street, Zlatan lbile. The video which was directed by the ace music video director Twitch has generated thousands of positive comments online within 24hours of its release. An indication that OzzyBee is fast becoming a force to reckon with in the music scene and way ahead of his peers in the game. The energetic music superstar who came to limellght at the tender age of 4 when he won the Nigeria “Kids Got Talent competition is also pioneering a pet project Stop Suicide Africa initiative in which OzzyBosco Smile Foundation (OSF) partners with Peaceful Mind Foundation. Read Also: Allowance hike: NDDC abandoned projects: Reps vow to drag contractors before EFCC of India. The two concerned organisations have vowed to carry this noble campaign across the African Continent. According to OzzyBee, the project is aimed at encouraging people out of their own depression, give hope to the hopeless and deter people from taking their lives. With high rate of suicide in the worid, this project is coming at the nick of time to help save lives. Quoting this young man in one of his songs, Suicide is not an option The child sensation is an all-round entertair Singer, Dancer, Actor and a notable philanthropist whose charity works are quiet visible. Most importantly,  he is a classroom genius who at Chrisland School,  OzzyBee has continue to be a high scorer despite his engagement in music career. He represented Nigerian Children at the 2016 ‘Britain Got Talent show in Manchester, England and was the only child participant/panelist at the 2017 Pan African Humanitarian Summit in Dar Salam, Tanzania. Suffice to mention that OzzyBee has over 285 Awards on his shelf. He is a UNESCO Child Advocate and also the Ambassador for Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) as well as his recent induction as NDLEA Celebrity Brand Ambassador. The hand that rocked this cradle, Identiied the exceptional talent in the budding star from the age of 3 months, guided, guarded, motivated and managed him to date is a dogged, hardworking and charming mother, Chief Elizabeth Nonye Mojekwu (Adadioranma Nnewi). An incredible milestone for this young artiste who can be termed A BEACON OF HOPE.