Gov. Dapo Abiodun of Ogun, on Wednesday, gave automatic employment to the best graduating student of the Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, Modupe Akintola, in the state civil service. The governor announced the automatic employment, while speaking at the 40th Founder’s Day and 19th convocation ceremony of the institution, in Ilaro. Abiodun said that the employment would take effect after the completion of the mandatory National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme by Akintola. He explained that the establishment of the polytechnic had contributed, in no small measure, to the socio-economic development of Ilaro town and the state as a whole. The governor added that the 40th Founder’s Day of the polytechnic could also be said to be the celebration of the history of tertiary education in Ogun. He congratulated the graduating students, saying that the education they had acquired was not just for them to receive certificate, but to get them prepared for the future. Abiodun also added that it would make them better individuals as well as complete and enlightened Nigerians who would be able to contribute to the development of the nation. He said that his administration would continue to give education the priority that it deserved and remain committed to providing qualitative education in the state at all levels. In his remarks, the Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, noted that the federal government recognised the importance of technology in providing the necessary platform for the development of the country. The minister, represented by Joel Ojo, Director, Tertiary Education in the ministry, explained that government was committed to growing the education sector by providing necessary support through funding and infrastructure. “Government will continue to encourage, support and sustain research and development in all areas relevant to the socio-economic development of the nation,” he said. Dr Olusegun Aluko, the Rector of the institution, noted that the polytechnic remained one of those fully prepared to change the narrative of the country. The rector explained that the polytechnic had not been lagging behind in its primary mandate, which was research and development. Aluko explained that 2,321 Ordinary National Diploma and 1,453 Higher National Diploma (HND) students graduated, while 179 bagged distinctions. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the overall best graduating student from the Department of Office Management Technology scored 3.90 cumulative grade point average (CGPA).