Ahead of the November 16 governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has warned voters in the two states to reject the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The party in a statement by its publicist, Lanre Issa- Onilu said the PDP should not  be trusted with power again after failing the country administratively in the past. The APC made copious reference to a  recent disclosures by the finance minister, Zainab Ahmed that the current administration continues to service a $460 million loan taken from China to fund a phony Abuja Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV) project contracted by the PDP administration. Maina denies any wrongdoing The party said  the fraudulent CCTV contract awarded in August 2010 is a stark reminder why Nigerians must continue to reject the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at all levels of government. “Lest we forget the $16billion spent on power with no electricity; fuel subsidy rackets; counter-insurgency funds that were diverted and shared to political cronies; a phoney gas supply and processing agreement which has left the current administration contesting a $9.6 billion judgment debt, among other corrupt schemes and heists perpetuated by consecutive PDP administrations during its 16 years rule. ” The good news is that those dark days of willful waste, procurement/contract frauds and institutionalised corruption are behind us. The President Muhammadu Buhari administration is progressively and aggressively instilling financial discipline, prudence, curbing leakages and ensuring probity in the way government conducts its business. “The execution of the ongoing national infrastructure projects are a sharp departure from the past where contracts were awarded and cash-backed yet poorly executed or not executed at all. “Today, Nigerians are getting full value for every kobo released for public works. Our public resources are now being rightly deployed to address our national infrastructure needs, social investments and other initiatives that directly benefit the people”, said the APC. As the governorship elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states are around the corner, the party cautioned the electorate saying ” we  must not fall prey to the rapacious PDP again. “We should be wary of whatever promises PDP is making ahead of the ballots in both Bayelsa and Kogi – a leopard cannot change its spots. “Profilgacy and corruption are in the PDP’s DNA. We must continuously strive to elect progressive governments at all levels, if we are to achieve the Nigeria of our dreams”. The All Progressives Congress (APC) urged Nigerians to continue its support for the President Buhari administration’s campaign to end profligacy and restore probity, efficiency, and transparency in our national life.