National carrier of the Cape Verde Islands, Cabo Verde Airlines has indicated its plans to commence direct flights from Lagos, Nigeria to Cape Verde on 9th December 2019. This was made known at a media briefing to officially launch the airline to the Nigerian public. The airline’s Boeing 757-200 will fly five times a week from the Lagos International Airport to its hub in Sal, Cape Verde. Chief Executive Officer and President, Cabo Airlines said Jens Bjarnason, “We are excited to add the most populous country in Africa as one of our destinations. Nigeria has a vibrant travel sector and we look forward to servicing our customers and connecting them to Cape Verde and beyond, seamlessly. Bjarnason stated that passengers can look forward to comfort, quality and a memorable travel experience on their aircraft which have 161 Economy class seats and 22 Executive Morabeza Premium Class seats. Nigeria Country Manager, Cabo Verde Airlines, Tariye Orianzi, said of the airline “We are targeting African entrepreneurs, leisure and business travellers as well as world travellers with our competitive pricing and offers, including a Cape Verde stopover program at no additional ticket costs. Interestingly, Cape Verde is a member of ECOWAS making it visa-free for Nigerians.” “Cape Verde has some of the most beautiful untouched natural Islands in the world. We hope to bring the Cape Verdean culture and colours to all corners of the world, as our mission suggests – connecting four continents while also serving as the gateway for fast travel. We also believe the addition of this route will improve tourism in Africa” she added. A CENTURY IN THE AIR AS KLM, BRITISH AIRWAYS, AVIANCA, MARK 100 YEARS OLD Cabo Verde airlines will commence operations on the Lagos – Sal, Cape Verde route from December 9, 2019, with flights on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays. Other destinations the airline flies to include Washington DC, Boston, Lisbon, Milan, Rome, Paris, Luanda, Dakar and several cities in Brazil – Recife, Porto Alegre, Salvador and Fortaleza. Cabo Verde Airlines is a scheduled airline whose new hub operates at the international airport on the island of Sal. Since November 2009 it has been an active member of the International Air Transport Association (IATA).