The camp of the U17
National Team, Golden Eaglets in Brazil has been energized following encouragement
by President Muhammadu Buhari (GCFR), as the players are looking to qualify for
the competition’s Round of 16 when they play Ecuador on Tuesday evening in
Goiania. The President on Sunday congratulated the team for the 4-2 lashing of Hungary in their opening match on Saturday, which has placed them at the top of Group B on goals difference ahead of Ecuador, who were 2-1 winners over Australia. READ ALSO  Golden Eaglets’ victory excites Buhari, urges them to go for ultimate trophy In a statement released
by presidential aide, Garba Shehu, President Buhari, under whose watch as
Nigeria’s leader the Golden Eaglets won the first of their five world titles
(as military Head of State in 1985) and their most recent one (as civilian President
in 2015), expressed confidence in the ability of the Eaglets to win a sixth
title in Brazil. “It was a wonderful
display that I am very proud of. You showed that there is nothing that cannot
be achieved with determination and perseverance. I have followed your journey
leading to your arrival in Brazil for the competition. I have equally noted
your determination and confidence throughout your preparations. “I have no doubt in my
mind that you are determined to win the competition for an unparalleled sixth
time.” Indeed, perseverance,
persistence and determination characterized the Eaglets’ 4-2 win over Hungary,
as they pushed and pushed until they got three goals in six minutes in the
second half to turn the game on its head. Tuesday’s top-of-the-table
clash with Ecuador at the same Estadio Olimpico, starting at 9pm Nigeria time,
promises to be explosive, with both teams aware that victory would mean an
early slot in the championship’s Round of 16. Captain Samson Tijani
told thenff.com on Monday: “We are very happy to have seen the congratulatory
messages by Mr. President. Our morale has been lifted even higher, and we will
go into the match against Ecuador with greater determination to win.”