Amb. Vincent Yang, the Representative of Taiwan in Nigeria, on Friday said that his home government would share more of its development experiences with Nigeria. Yang, who made the disclosure at the celebration of the 108th Double Tenth Day in Lagos, said that Taiwan was committed strengthening her economic relations with Nigeria in the years ahead. According to him, Taiwan’s 29-year-old formal relationship with Nigeria is anchored on both countries’ shared belief in freedom, democracy, and human rights. “In spite of efforts by a third party to disrupt the once pragmatic economic relationship between Taiwan and Nigeria, Taiwan will not be intimidated or withdraw its avowed desire to share its developmental experiences with Nigeria and other friendly countries and territories. “I am happy to inform you that through mutual collaboration between this Office that I head, and well-meaning Nigerian friends, we have witnessed continued flourishing of people-to-people ties between Taiwanese and Nigerians. “Our desire to assist Nigeria’s development has also been demonstrated in recent years through the donation of medical equipment to some facilities in Nigeria. “Taiwan is ready and willing to collaborate with Nigeria in various areas of mutual interest, if the Nigerian authorities can provide the necessary conducive and enabling environment, devoid of third party interference,’’ he said. Yang said that a Taiwanese business delegation would be visiting Nigeria soon to explore areas of mutual collaboration with Nigerian business men and women. The Taiwanese representative said that the anticipated visit of the Taiwan Africa Business Association (TABA) would further strengthen the existing ties between Nigeria and Taiwan. “Despite facing international challenges, we have remained firm in upholding the core values of democracy and freedom, showing strong resilience and safeguarding Taiwan’s sustainable development,’’ he said. “As you may know, this year marks the 108th Double Tenth National Day celebration of Republic of China, popularly known as Taiwan. Double Tenth Day marks the start of the Wuchang Uprising of Oct. 10, 1911. “That revolt marked the end of the Ching (Qing) Dynasty and led to the founding of the Republic of China (Taiwan) on Jan. 1 1912 as Asia’s first Republic. “The 10th of October each year is a day when Taiwanese pride takes precedence over everything else, and Taiwanese people both at home and abroad celebrate,’’ he said. (NAN)