’Nigeria will continue to value its relationship with S’Africa’ President Muhammadu Buhari and his South African counterpart, Cyril Ramaphosa, have vowed to put in place all measures needed to prevent a reoccurrence of xenophobic attacks on Nigerians and other foreigners in that country. Read Also:  Court remands driver for allegedly defiling neighbour’s daughter In a joint communiqué issued by both leaders at the end of their meeting on Thursday in Pretoria, South Africa, President Buhari condemned in the strongest terms, attacks against Nigerians and other African nationals living in South Africa. The president, who also condemned the looting of their shops and businesses and burning of their properties, said that measures must be put in place to check future occurrence. While calling on the South African government to open up its economy for more Nigerian businesses as well as guarantee their safety, he stressed the need for reciprocity in promoting trade and investments between both countries. He said: ‘’South African companies had enjoyed unfettered access to Nigerian market, and protection with enabling laws. “We are pleased to inform you that our Government has made doing business in Nigeria easier through the Ease of Doing Business Initiative to open up more opportunities for investors in Nigeria. “We call on the Government of South Africa to also take steps to ease the doing of business in the country, and open up its market space for Nigerian businessmen and women. “In this context, we are gratified that a Nigeria-South Africa Business Forum has been organised in the frame work of this State visit,’’ the President said. President Buhari also reaffirmed that  Nigeria will continue to value its relationship with South Africa, which is the second largest economy in Africa, noting that 32 agreements and MoUs had been signed between both countries. “We, in Nigeria, value the warm fraternal relations binding our two countries and cherish our Special Relationship. We consider South Africa an ally and a strategic partner. “We need to implement those agreements that have come into force, as well as to expedite necessary action to ratify the seven outstanding agreements that have not yet been brought into force. “I welcome the robust Defence Cooperation between Nigeria and South Africa, and call for more support and solidarity with us in our fight against terrorism and violent extremism. We also welcome the increased collaboration against arms and drug trafficking, money laundering and human trafficking,’’ he added. On his part, South Africa President Cyril Ramaphosa congratulated President Buhari for winning the 2019 Presidential elections, and starting a second term. President Ramaphosa said the attacks on foreign nationals was regrettable, assuring that his government would do more to safeguard lives and property. He said: ”We will always be grateful to Nigeria for the support we received during the dark days of apartheid. We shall never forget the role you played to ensure that our people get the freedom we are enjoying today’’.