The Nasarawa State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has said that the emergence of Alhaji Abdulahi  Sule as the governor and Tanko Almakura as the senator representing Nasarawa South Senatorial District during the March 2019 general election is a confirmation that people of the state have enjoyed good governance under APC. The State Secretary of the party, Alhaji Aliyu Bello who made the disclosure in a chat with The Daily Times after the Appeal Court sitting in Makurdi the Benue State capital heard and adjourned the case between Sheriff Abubakar representing Lafia/Obi federal constituency on the platform of APC and J.H. Kigbu of the PDP. Imo will be safe for all during Christmas, says CP According to him, Governor Sule since coming on board a couple of months ago has demonstrated the will to consolidate on achievements his predecessor, Tanko Al-makura established eight years ago and advised PDP to join hands to move the state forward rather than constituting a distraction. Alhaji Bello stated that the victory of Senator Al-Makura at the polls, tribunal and Appeal Court was a clear confirmation that the will of majority of electorates in Nasarawa South Senatorial District could not be challenged by the PDP candidate, Barr. Solomon Adokwe. “Our opponents have no ground for appeal because APC won clearly at the polls. As politicians, we must learn to accept defeat and wait for another time. Senator Adokwe has been on this seat for 12 years but this time around, people in the district voted him out in favour of APC. Even if he has the opportunity of appealing to the Supreme Court, he will still loose.” Alhaji Bello pointed out that as a lawyer, Senator Adokwe cannot come to the tribunal with only one witness whom he said was not even an eye witness to the election and expect to get justice its “demeaning of him, but this is by no means a dispersion,” Bello said. The APC, according to the state secretary was magnanimous in victory and call on all stakeholders in the Nasarawa State project to join hands to move it to the next level of peace and development. “Adokwe has been winning his elections through the court. So, let him be gallant in defeat and come out to congratulate his opponent.” The APC state Secretary explained that the election petitions tribunal had erred in its ruling nullifying the victory of APC’s Sheriff Abubakar representing Lafia/Obi federal constituency, which redress is being sought at the Appeal Court with a hope of clinching victory at the end of the day and urged supporters to remain prayerful and orderly as the final ruling is being awaited. The defeated PDP candidate, Dr. J. H. Kigbu who was in court declined to comment on his expectation of the Appeal Court’s decision which would come in a few weeks from now.