No fewer than 115 people has benefited from the free cataract eye treatment and surgeries conducted by a Korean Company, Vision Care at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital Lagos. The 5th edition of this Vision eye camp took place from September 30 to October 04. Speaking during the exercise, the Ambassador of the Republic of Korea to Nigeria Lee In-tae, expressed happiness with the outcome of the surgery and remarked that such medical outreach was meaningful to the good health of Nigerians.. Spain’s court sentences Catalonia leaders for sedition The Ambassador disclosed that a total of 115 persons underwent free cataract surgeries while 224 persons received eye treatments. While assisting some of the beneficiaries to open their eyes for the first time after the surgery, they expressed joy at the restoration of their eye sights. The Ambassador encouraged the beneficiaries and wished them very good health. Vision Care, an international relief organization affiliated to the World Health Organization is dedicated to the prevention of blindness through global projects initiatives in collaboration with LASUTH and supported by Samsung Heavy Industries Nigeria LTD. Cataract surgery, also called lens replacement surgery, is the removal of the natural lens of the eye (also called “crystalline lens”) that has developed an opacification, which is referred to as a cataract, and its replacement with an intraocular lens. Metabolic changes of the crystalline lens fibers over time lead to the development of the cataract, causing impairment or loss of vision. Some infants are born with congenital cataracts, and certain environmental factors may also lead to cataract formation. Early symptoms may include strong glare from lights and small light sources at night, and reduced acuity at low light levels. During cataract surgery, a patient’s cloudy natural cataract lens is removed, either by emulsification in place or by cutting it out. An artificial intraocular lens (IOL) implant is inserted (eye surgeons say that the lens is “implanted”) in its place. Cataract surgery is generally performed by an ophthalmologist in an ambulatory setting at a surgical center or hospital rather than an inpatient setting. Either topical, peribulbar, or retrobulbar local anesthesia is used, usually causing little or no discomfort to the patient. Well over 90% of operations are successful in restoring useful vision, with a low complication rate. Day care, high volume, minimally invasive, small incision phacoemulsification with quick post-op recovery has become the standard of care in cataract surgery all over the world.