The chief executive officer of Jumia Nigeria, Juliet Anammah has identified access to quality education as a key to managing huge population for productive economy. According to her, there is a need for policies that support micro industries in order to tackle unemployment. “Providing unemployed youths with internet-enabled smartphones is one of the infrastructure that could take millions out of unemployment,” she said. According to her, there is a need for policies that support micro industries in order to tackle unemployment. “Providing unemployed youths with internet-enabled smartphones is one of the infrastructure that could take millions out of unemployment,” she said. Anammah made this disclosure while speaking as a panel member at the 25th Nigerian Economic Summit in Abuja which dissected the topic on demography: “Nigeria in 2050: boom or bust”, alongside the Founder of the Kukah Centre, Bishop Mathew Kukah; Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi and Emir Sanusi who said Nigeria’s huge population is yet to be converted to productive use. READ ALSO  We will not reach 80% revenue performance for 2019 — finance minister “We need policies that support micro industries. We have millions of people under-employed today. How do we tackle it?” she asked. Providing unemployed youths with enabled Internet smartphones is one infrastructure that could take millions out of unemployment,”she added. The Emir of Kano said Nigeria’s huge population is a liability and not assets. He attributed the negative vices ravaging the country on huge, uneducated population. The focus of the panel session was on how Nigeria’s demographic realities can be transformed into social and business opportunities, and what are its implications on internal migration and threats to sustainable peace and security. Jumia is the leading pan-African e-commerce platform, present across 14 countries in Africa. Its mission is to improve the quality of everyday life in Africa by leveraging technology to deliver innovative, convenient and affordable online services to consumers while helping businesses grow as they use Jumia’s platform to better reach and serve consumers. The Jumia platform consists of a marketplace, which connects sellers with consumers, a logistics service, which enables the shipment and delivery of packages from sellers to consumers, and a payment service, which facilitates transactions among participants active on the Jumia platform in selected markets. On the marketplace, more than 80,000 sellers offer a broad range of goods and on-demand services. Jumia Logistics facilitates the delivery of goods in a convenient and reliable way, leveraging an extensive network of third-party logistics service providers, seamlessly integrated through the Jumia proprietary technology platform. JumiaPay offers a safe and easy solution to facilitate online transactions on the Jumia platform, with the intention of integrating additional financial services in the future.