Nsukka – Prof. Charles Igwe, the Vice-Chancellor, University of Nigeria, Nsukka(UNN),  said there was urgent need to rebuild some of the dilapidated buildings in Nsukka High School (NHS). Igwe, who graduated from the school in 1972, made the call in Nsukka, when Nsukka chapter of NHS Old Boys Association paid him a solidarity visit in his office. He said:  “All the old boys must see it as a responsibility to contribute to rebuild the school, from its present dilapidated condition, since it was the school that made them what they are today. “NHS has produced prominent people in the society and so we should contribute our quota to rebuild and transform our alma mater, that made us what we are today. “Let us decide that every year we will rebuild, repaint and equip one building in our alma mater, within a short time the school will wear a new look, “he said. The VC expressed appreciation for the visit that enabled him to see some of his seniors and juniors during his secondary school days and promised he would continue to be a good ambassador of the school. “I feel very happy to see my secondary school mates and class mates in Nsukka High School. “Your presence today reminds me of past memories of my secondary school days; when hard work and discipline are determining factors for academic success. “Without the good education and discipline I received from NHS, I doubt if I could have been the VC today, “he said. UNN emerges No. 1 in Nigeria, among top 20 universities in Africa Earlier in a remark, Prof. Simon Eze, the President of Old Boys Association, Nsukka branch, said the visit was to show solidarity as well as congratulate one of the old boys who was appointed the Vice-Chancellor of UNN. “The old boys of NHS are proud of the VC and are here to tell him that we are solidly behind his administration. “We are happy that you scored the highest marks to emerge as the 15th Vice-Chancellor of University of Nigeria Nsukka. “We are grateful to God who exalted you to this high position. We will continue to pray to God to give him wisdom and favour so that his administration will be one of the best in the history of UNN,” he said. Eze commended Igwe for being a good ambassador of his alma mater both in words and actions.“Nsukka High School is a great school that has produced stars, of which you are a living testimony. “We hold our heads high, to see that products of NHS are outstanding in various spheres of human endeavours. “Thank you sir, for projecting the image of NHS in good light both in words and actions, ” Eze said. Highlight of the visit was singing of NHS anthem. NAN reports that no fewer than 80 old boys of NHS were present at the solidarity visit. (NAN)