The Federal Government has stated that the transgender, Idris Okuneye, also known as Bobrisky, poses serious health hazard to Nigerians especially the feminine gender. Otunba Segun Runsewe, Director-General of National Centre for Arts and Culture, a parastatal of the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture, who spoke to The Punch, said that his health hazard is worse than Ebola. He said, “Bobrisky is a serious health hazard for Nigeria and Nigerians. The health hazard Bobrisky has is worse than Ebola Virus Disease; travellers and tourists should be careful wherever they notice the presence of Bobrisky, mostly as it affects sharing of public facilities.” Runsewe, stated this because of the report received by the Federal Government on how Idris Okuneye, popularly known as Bobrisky, caused a stir at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport in Abuja when he used a female toilet. As a result of this, the federal government asked travellers and tourists to be careful wherever they notice the presence of Bobrisky, mostly as it affects sharing of public facilities, including toilets. While appealing to the leadership of Nigeria Medical Association to enlighten people on the dangers of women sharing public toilet with Bobrisky, the government said that by using public female toilet, Bobrisky had constituted a serious threat to women. Runsewe further stated, “Women are prone to get various types of disease from the toilet than sexual intercourse. Now, Bobrisky will enter the same toilet with a woman and at the end the woman will contract some kind of diseases. “When she gets home and sleeps with her husband and the husband discovers he has been infected, the next thing is to seek for divorce without knowing the actual cause of how the wife was infected.” He added, “In the first place, Bobrisky’s passport shows that he is a man. Why should he turn himself to a woman and use women’s toilets? At the end of the day, innocent Nigerian women who go to same toilet will now be infected with what they did not bargain for. “If Bobrisky is even using men’s toilet, we can understand.  As I speak, we got a report of how a woman was very upset with the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria because on this day she saw Bobrisky using female toilet in Abuja Airport. “Well, for me, we have done our little bit; we have left everything for the medical practitioners,” he added.